<div custom-style="chs_chapter_title">

Ongoing comments on <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">A Pausanias
reader in progress</span>

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_essay_author">

Gregory Nagy

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_essay_author">

Editors: Angelia Hanhardt and Keith DeStone

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_essay_author">

Web producer: Noel Spencer

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_essay_author">

Consultant for images: Jill Curry Robbins

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_essay_author">

\[\[Noel gives this a separate URN\]\]

</div>

## Scroll I. Attica

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.1.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikos</span>/<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikē </span>‘Greek,
Hellenic’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēpeiros </span>‘mainland’;
Cyclades Islands; Aegean
Sea; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">akrā </span>‘headland’;
Sounion;
Attica; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">nāos </span>‘temple,
shrine’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Souniás </span>‘Athena-of-Sounion’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">koruphē </span>‘summit’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.1. The first two sentences of the whole narrative are crafted in such
a way as to set the trajectory for everything that will be narrated
hereafter. In the translation as I have configured it, to be found in
<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">A Pausanias reader in progress</span>
(hereafter abbreviated as APRIP),I have tried to simulate the structure
of the Greek text by following as closely as possible the original word
order.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.2. Pausanias has been sailing on a westward journey along the Aegean
Sea, making his way past the Cycladic Islands and heading toward a
magnificent headland named Sounion as his first point of contact with
the mainland of Europe. The view of this headland will create for
Pausanias, as the viewer, his first impression not only of Europe in
general but also of Attica in particular, which was a land-mass
dominated by the city of Athens. And, just as the view of Attica is
already now emerging as the dominant view of Europe for Pausanias, so
also the upcoming view of Athens will dominate his entire narrative.
Further, as we will see, the viewer’s first impression of Athens will be
linked with Athena, the goddess of Athens.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image1.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:8.66806in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Athena Promachos, British, Australian and New Zealand WWII soldiers
memorial, Pedion tou Areos. Image via Flickr user Dimitris Kamaras,
reproduced under a CC BY 2.0 license.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.3. The first two words in the Greek text of 1.1.1 are a noun and an
adjective referring to the European mainland of the Greek-speaking world
as it existed in the era of Pausanias, and the genitive case of the noun
and adjective here anticipates what is about to be highlighted as the
subject of the sentence: ‘Belonging to the Greek mainland
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēpeiros</span>\] …is…’. And we
already know that the very first place that is highlighted as ‘belonging
to the Greek mainland’ is the magnificent headland of Sounion.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.4. Here I need to ask a question that turns out to be most relevant:
what is the ‘Greek’ mainland? The adjective describing the
noun <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēpeiros </span>‘mainland’
in Pausanias 1.1.1
is <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikē</span>, which I
translate as ‘Greek’. Here and everywhere in this Reader, ‘Greek’
translates the
adjective <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikos</span>/<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikē </span>‘Hellenic’
as well as the
noun <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēn </span>‘Hellene’;
and ‘Greece’
translates <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellás </span>‘Hellas,
Hellenic land’. On the use of these words in the era of Pausanias, I
recommend the observations of Habicht 1998:25–27. I must add as a
further observation, however, that the use of these same
words <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikos</span>/<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēnikē </span>and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellēn </span>and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hellás </span>in
earlier eras was more complicated. A case in point is the era marked by
the sea battle at Salamis in 480 BCE, where the navies of Athens and of
other European Greek city-states defeated the invading naval forces of
the Persian Empire: at the time, as I argue in Nagy 2017.06.25 §§43–50
on the basis of what we read in Scroll 8 of Herodotus, the words that I
am now translating as ‘Hellenic’ or ‘Greek’ did not apply to all the
Greeks involved in that sea battle: besides the Greeks of Europe who
fought against the Persian Empire at Salamis, there were Greeks from
Asia Minor and from outlying islands such as Samos who were fighting on
the other side, and such Asiatic Greeks, who lived under the rule of the
Persian Empire, thought of themselves as Ionians, not as Hellenes. More
than six centuries later, however, in the era of Pausanias, Asiatic
Greeks no longer thought of themselves as non-Hellenes. A case in point
is Pausanias, who was a native of the Asiatic Greek mainland but who
considered himself to be a Hellene. On Pausanias as a spokesman for
Hellenic identity, I refer again to the observations of Habicht
1998:25–27.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.5. But now I need to ask another relevant question: why does
Pausanias, who thinks of himself as a Hellene, refer to the mainland of
Greek Europe as the ‘Hellenic’ mainland? What seems problematic here is
the fact that the mainland of Greek Asia Minor was just as ‘Hellenic’ in
the era of Pausanias as was the mainland of Greek Europe. But the
problem is solved if we keep in mind the fact that Asiatic Hellenes
thought of the European mainland as the homeland from where they had
migrated eastward in prehistoric times. There is a multitude of myths
centering on the migrations of Greeks from Europe to Asia Minor, and
Pausanias himself is a source for some of these myths, as we see for
example at 7.2.1, 7.2.4, 7.3.2, 7.3.6. Even many of the place-names in
Greek Asia Minor reflect indirectly such myths. I choose here as
prominent examples a pair of two cities in Asia Minor that are both
named Magnesia: one is Magnesia-at-Sipylos, situated at the foot of a
mountain range known as Sipylos and contiguous with the river Hermos,
while the other is Magnesia-at-the-Maeander, which was a city further
south, contiguous with the river Maeander. Both sites were evidently
named after a well-known site in European Thessaly that was likewise
named Magnesia. I have chosen as prominent examples these two cities of
Magnesia in Asia Minor because Pausanias in his reportage shows an
intimate familiarity with both these Magnesias and their environs, and,
as I infer from this familiarity, he thought of himself as a Magnesian
in origin. A similar inference, again on the grounds of the familiarity
shown by Pausanias, has been made by Habicht 1998:14–15—though he is
speaking there only about Magnesia-at-Sipylos as the homeland of
Pausanias, whereas I include also Magnesia-at-the-Maeander, which the
text describes in comparably familiar terms. To justify this inclusion,
I refer to my comment at 1.1.2, which can be supplemented by the
relevant comments of Habicht 1998:5, 15. In his comments as cited here,
as also further at his p. 17, Habicht acknowledges that Pausanias was
familiar with both Magnesia-at-Sipylos and Magnesia-on-the-Maeander—as
also with practically all of Greek Asia Minor—even though the trajectory
of the travels that he narrates in sequence does not include those parts
of the Greek-speaking world that are situated on the mainland of Asia
Minor: for more on the travels of Pausanias beyond the travels that he
narrates in the ten scrolls attributed to him, I recommend the analysis
of Habicht 1998:17. To sum up, then, what has been argued so far: in the
overall narrative that Pausanias is about to present at the beginning of
his work, he will be focusing not on the mainland of Greek Asia Minor,
which is his homeland, but on the mainland of Greek Europe, which he is
about to highlight at the very beginning of his narrative.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.6. That said, I am ready to take a closer look at the very first
place that Pausanias highlights as ‘belonging to the Greek mainland’.
This place, as we will now see, is relevant to the European identity of
the ‘Greek’ mainland. In the wording that follows the first two words of
the Greek text, the very idea of a ‘mainland’ is now highlighted as the
magnificent <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">akrā </span>or
‘headland’ named Sounion. As if to intensify the highlighting, Pausanias
uses the word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">akrā </span>three
times here at 1.1.1. The view of this headland will give the viewer his
first impression not only of the ‘Greek mainland’ in general but also of
Attica in particular, which as I have already noted was the name of the
land-mass dominated by the city of Athens. Here is Pausanias sailing
east to west, from the direction of Asia Minor to Europe, and his first
impression of Europe is already becoming an Athenian impression. Just as
the view of Attica has already now become the dominant way to view
Europe, so also the upcoming view of Athens will become the dominant way
to view Attica. Further, as we will see in §1.7, the viewer’s first
impression of Athens will be linked with the goddess of Athens, Athena,
who is signaled here as presiding over a temple at Sounion. The presence
of the goddess at Sounion anticipates her presence in Athens, which will
be the first city to be visited by Pausanias. And, as the first city,
Athens will dominate the entire narrative of Pausanias.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.7. As Pausanias proceeds to sail round the headland of Sounion, now
heading toward Athens, he sees a sacred space where the goddess Athena
is worshipped. As he notes at a later point, 1.28.2, it is when you
round the headland of Sounion that you see from far off in the distance
the tip of the spear of Athena Promakhos, a famous outdoors statue of
the goddess Athena imagined as fully-armed—hence her
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">promakhos </span>‘leading
the battle’. As we see at 1.28.2, this statue of the goddess Athena was
situated in the heights of the Acropolis of Athens, guarding the
entrance to the sacred space. The mention of Athena at 1.28.2 can be
linked with the context here at 1.1.1, where the goddess is mentioned
for the first time by Pausanias. The sacred space of Athena at Sounion,
1.1.1., is mentally connected here with the spear tip of the goddess
high up and far away on the Acropolis of Athens. We see here a metonymy.
The metonymy here is relevant to the relationship between the name of
the goddess, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athēnē</span>, and
the name of the city over which the goddess
presides, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athēnai</span>. As I
have pointed out in HC 4§117, the Greek language has preserved a most
ancient and fundamental connection that exists between the name of
Athena and the name of Athens. The singular name of the goddess
Athena, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athḗnē</span>, is
coextensive with the plural name of her city of
Athens, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athênai</span>. This
plural name means, elliptically, ‘Athena and everything/everyone
connected to her’. In other words, the name of the city of Athens is
itself a most ancient metonym that expresses the divine power of
integrating and unifying the diversity of all things and all people
connected with the city of Athens. From the vantage point of Pausanias,
as I infer from what he says at 1.28.2, the metonymy can start at the
moment when you see the tip of Athena’s spear as you sail around the
headland of Sounion. From the tip of the spear your mental image can
work its way down, down, further down, and, the next thing you know, you
grasp the totalizing concept of Athens. \[\[GN 2017.10.14\]\]

</div>

#### Pausanias at Sounion: why no mention of Poseidon?

subject heading(s): Poseidon, temple (sanctuary) of Poseidon, Athena,
temple (sanctuary) of Athena

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.0. At the very beginning of the Description of Greece as narrated by
Pausanias (1.1.1), when the ship carrying our traveler approaches the
east side of the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">akrā</span> or
‘headland’ of Sounion, he must have been struck by the view of a
magnificent temple situated at the highest point of the headland—a
temple that archaeologists have identified as sacred to the god
Poseidon, lord of the seas. The visual power of this view is evident
from the photograph I show, where we see the temple of Poseidon as
viewed from the east side of the headland. But why does Pausanias make
no mention of Poseidon? My answer, in what follows, will require a shift
in emphasis. What I really need to ask is this: why does Pausanias make
no mention of Poseidon as a god who presides over the headland of
Sounion? And the answer, I will argue, is that the god Poseidon is at
least for the moment eclipsed, in the mind of Pausanias, by the goddess
Athena.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.1. But what is this moment? It happens, as I picture it, when the
ship bringing our traveler has rounded the
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">akrā</span> or ‘headland’ of
Sounion and is now making its way toward the nearby harbor, located on
the west side of the headland. At this moment my mind’s eye, as if it
were a camera, zooms out, moving backward, backing away—far back enough
to take in a full view, looking east, of the west side of this massive
headland of Sounion, with its rugged profile defiantly jutting out into
the turbulent seas that rage against it. What I imagine can be seen in
this photograph of the west profile:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image2.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:1.63542in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Cape Sounion in profile. Image via Wikimedia Commons.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image3.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:1.65556in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Drawing, by Jill Curry Robbins, of the profile of Cape Sounion.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.2. In this photograph of the west profile of Sounion, matched by the
drawing underneath it, we can see at the right, which is south, the
highest point of the headland, and, sitting on top of this point, this
elevation, is the temple of Poseidon—or, to put it more broadly, the
sanctuary of the god. Then there is a lower point, further to the left,
that is, further to the north (more precisely, north-east), and, sitting
on top of this lower point—but this point too is an elevation—is the
sanctuary of Athena
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Souniás</span>, as Pausanias
refers to her. So, the goddess is, for Pausanias, ‘Our Lady of Sounion’.
I have already commented, at §1.1 through §1.7 \[[Nagy
2017.10.10](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/samples-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-1-1-the-first-two-sentences/)\],
about the connections of Athena with the headland of Sounion in the
thinking of Pausanias.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.3. But what about Poseidon? Why does Pausanias not refer to ‘Our Lord
of Sounion’, as it were? The absence of any mention of the god in the
description given by our traveler had led to the common assumption,
shared even by James Frazer in his commentary on Pausanias (1913 2:2),
that the temple of Poseidon, far better preserved than the temple of
Athena <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Souniás</span>, was
really the temple of the goddess. As is evident, however, from the text
of an inscription dating from around 460–450 BCE
(<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Inscriptiones Graecae</span>
I<span custom-style="chs_superscript">3</span> 8), the temple that we
still see today at the highest point of the headland has been
identified, in the words of the archaeologist Barbara Barletta (2017:10)
as “belonging not to Athena, as earlier believed, but to Poseidon.”

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.4. It does not necessarily follow, however, that Pausanias made a
mistake and wrongly identified the structure situated at the higher
elevation, further south, with the sanctuary of Athena, which was
situated at the lower elevation, further north. There may be other
explanations that absolve Pausanias from having made such a mistake, and
I recommend the relevant discussion of Barletta (2017:9–10), who surveys
a wide variety of such explanations, with bibliography.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.5. I can agree with none of the explanations published so far. But I
disagree only in one detail with the formulation of an archaeologist I
knew in the early 1970s, John Young (1961), who has this to say in a
terse abstract he published about the relevant testimony of Pausanias
(1.1.1): “although the author did neglect to mention the temple of
Poseidon, his location of the other points \[that he did mention\] is
correct.” And the first two of the points highlighted by Young are the
harbor at the west bay and the temple of Athena
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Souniás</span>, sitting on the
elevation overlooking the harbor. I do agree with Young that Pausanias
was “correct” in saying as much as he said in his description. I show
here a photograph of the west bay, as viewed from the elevation
overlooking the harbor. It is on top of this elevation that the remains
of the temple of Athena are still visible.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image4.jpg"
style="width:5.55556in;height:4.16667in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[The bay west of Cape Sounion. Image via Flickr, under a CC BY-SA 2.0
license.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.6. My one point of disagreement with the formulation of Young (1961)
centers on his idea that Pausanias “neglected” Poseidon. Instead, as I
already indicated at the beginning of my relevant comments here, I argue
that the god Poseidon is at least for the moment eclipsed, in the mind
of Pausanias, by the goddess Athena. It is not a matter of neglect.
Rather, Pausanias prioritizes Athena in the context of her rivalry with
Poseidon, a rivalry that can be viewed on the level of ritual, not only
on the level of myth. There is a similar eclipse I see happening when
Pausanias visits the Acropolis of Athens: at 1.26.5–6, his treatment of
the old sanctuary of Athena
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Poliás</span> eclipses his
treatment of the adjacent sanctuary of Poseidon.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§2.7. For Poseidon to be eclipsed by Athena is not a matter of neglect
on the part of the ancients who worshipped both these divinities.
Rather, it is a matter of their recognizing, in ritual as well as in
myth, the dominance of one divinity over another. It is a matter of
picturing a sacred space that is shared by two such divinities, one of
whom is dominant while the other is, by comparison, recessive. I will
have more to say in later comments about such a pattern of sharing, such
a condominium of sacred space. \[\[GN 2020.06.12\]\]

</div>

#### The island of Patroklos

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Island of Patroklos; defamiliarization

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">Island of Patroklos</span>… Our first
impression, as we read the
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Patroklos</span>, may be
that the referent here is the Homeric hero Patroklos. As we read on,
however, we are quickly defamiliarized: this Patroklos is a historical
figure, stemming from the Hellenistic era—which is the period of time
starting with the conquests of Alexander the Great in the fourth century
BCE and lasting up to the time when the Roman Empire takes possession of
Hellas or ‘Greece’ in the second century BCE. I think that Pausanias, by
way of his defamiliarizing gesture in introducing the name of Patroklos,
is creating a signature, as it were, for the genre in which he is
expressing himself. I agree with Cohen 2001:95 when she says that the
work of Pausanias is one of the few surviving examples of this genre,
which has “a Hellenistic background.” \[\[GN 2014.04.03.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.1.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s):
Peiraieus; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">dēmos </span>‘deme’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epineion </span>‘seaport’;
Themistocles; spelling of Greek
names; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arkhōn </span>‘archon’;
Phaleron; Athenian
thalassocracy; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">neōs
oikoi </span>‘ship-sheds’; Menestheus: Athenian signatures in Homeric
poetry; Theseus; Minos; Minoan thalassocracy; Androgeos ‘man born of
Earth’; speaking
name; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">limēn </span>‘harbor’;
tomb of Themistokles at Peiraieus

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">spelling of Greek names</span>… I
offer a general comment on the spelling of Greek names, with primary
reference to the name
of <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Themistocles </span>here at 1.1.2…
The name of this famous Athenian statesman could have been spelled here
and elsewhere in the hellenized way,
as <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Themistokles</span>. The same can
be said about the name of another famous Athenian
statesman, <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Pericles</span>, who is
first mentioned by Pausanias at 1.25.1: here as well, the name could
have been spelled in the hellenized way,
as <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Perikles</span>. In general,
however, I spell any Greek name in a latinized way wherever the said
name has become a “household word” in English, as in the case of
Themistocles and Pericles. When I
say <span custom-style="chs_highlight">latinized </span>I mean spellings
where Latin lettering is substituted for the corresponding hellenized
lettering:
so, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">c</span> for <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">k</span>, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ch</span> for <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">kh</span>, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ae</span> for <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ai</span>, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">oe</span> for <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">oi</span>, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">u</span> for <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ou</span>, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">-us</span> for
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">–os</span>, and so on.
Besides <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Themistocles </span>and <span custom-style="chs_highlight">Pericles</span>,
I will spell in a latinized (and anglicized) way such other “household
words” as represented by the following Greek names: Academy (not
Akademeia), Achilles (not Akhilleus), Acropolis (not Akropolis), Aeneas
(not Aineias), Ajax (not Aias), Alcibiades (not Alkibiades), Alexander
(not Alexandros), Anacreon (not Anakreon), Andromache (not Andromakhe),
Apollo (not Apollon), Arcadia (not Arkadia), Attica (not Attike),
Cambyses (not Kambuses), Cassandra (not Kassandra), Chersonesus (not
Kherronesos), Chios (not Khios), Chrysippus (not Khrusippos),
Cleisthenes (not Kleisthenes), Corcyra (not Kerkura), Corinth (not
Korinthos), Cyclades (not Kuklades), Cyrene (not Kurene), Cythera (not
Kuthera), Delphi (not Delphoi), Dionysus (not Dionusos), Euboea (not
Euboia), Herodotus (not Herodotos), Hesiod (not Hesiodos), Hippolytus
(not Hippolutos), Homer (not Homeros), Isocrates (not Isokrates),
Lacedaemonia (not Lakedaimonia), Lyceum (not Lukeion: see my comments on
Pausanias 1.19.3), Lycurgus (name of the Athenian statesman, as also of
the early Spartan ‘lawgiver’; not Lukourgos), Maeander (not Maiandros),
Menander (not Menandros), Musaeus (not Mousaios), Oedipus (not
Oidipous), Palladium (not Palladion), Peloponnesus (not Peloponnesos),
Phaedra (not Phaidra), Philip (not Philippos), Pindar (not Pindaros),
Philoctetes (not Philoktetes), Plato (not Platon), Pluto (not Plouton),
Polygnotus (not Polugnotos), Polyxena (not Poluxene), Ptolemy (not
Ptolemaios), Socrates (not Sokrates), Sophocles (not Sophokles),
Syracuse (not Surakoussai), Tarentum (not Taras), Thermopylae (not
Thermopulai), Thucydides (not
Thoukudides). <span custom-style="chs_highlight">All these examples come
from Pausanias 1.1 through 1.30</span>. Some “household names” of the
past, however, are less likely to qualify as such today, and I include
in this smaller list such names as Antipatros (not Antipater),
Kassandros (not Cassander), Aratos (not Aratus), Eurydikē (not
Eurydice), Oitē (not Oeta), Rōxanē (not Roxana), Khairōneia (not
Chaeronea), Aigeus (not Aegeus), Daidalos (not Daedalus), Ikaros (not
Icarus), Hipparkhos (not Hipparchus). I have included in this shorter
list even the names of the father of Theseus, Aigeus (not Aegeus), after
whom the Aegean Sea is named, and of the Ptolemaic queen Eurydikē,
despite the association of the mythical figure Eurydice with Orpheus, as
in Pausanias 9.30.6. In many cases, it is relatively easy to recognize
the latinized versions underneath the more hellenized spellings. A
shining example is the father-and-son pair Daidalos and Ikaros, for
Daedalus and Icarus. Another such example is Kleopatra, for Cleopatra.
In many cases, my reasons for preferring the hellenized spelling over
the latinized version have to do with word-associations that become
evident in contexts highlighted by Pausanias. In the case of Daidalos,
for example, the meaning of his name is relevant to the name of a
festival, the Daidala, as described by Pausanias 9.3.2–6. \[\[GN
2017.10.05.\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">archon </span>\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arkhōn</span>\]…
As we see later in our readings, Pausanias 4.5.10, this word ‘archon’
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arkhōn</span>\], meaning
literally ‘leader’, was the Athenian title of an official who was
appointed yearly by lot. The traditional Athenian way of dating any
given year when any event happened was by remembering the name of the
archon \[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arkhōn</span>\] who was
in charge during that year.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">thalassocracy</span>… In the history
of Athens, the era of the Athenian Empire was most noted for the city’s
maritime power, the Greek word for which
was <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">thalassokratiā </span>or
‘thalassocracy’. For background on this word, see 1§§5–6 in
Nagy [2017.04.11, “Diachronic Homer and a Cretan
Odyssey.”](http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn-3:hlnc.essay:Nagy.Diachronic_Homer_and_a_Cretan_Odyssey.2017) \[\[GN
2014.04.13\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">ship-sheds</span> \[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek_high">neōs
oikoi</span>\]… In the glory days of the Athenian Empire, a most
celebrated visual marker of the magnificence as well as the power of its
thalassocracy was the architectural complex of colossal buildings known
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">neōs
oikoi </span>‘ship-sheds’ at the dockyards of seaport of Peiraieus. I
have invited Mills McArthur to write a comment here about these
buildings. \[\[GN 2014.04.13\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">neōs-oikoi </span>‘ship-sheds’–literally
‘ship houses’–of Peiraieus sheltered the warships so critical to the
military success of the city of Athens. Ships would be drawn up out of
the water on ramps into their ‘houses’. But these utilitarian dockyard
structures ultimately transcended their function, gaining great symbolic
importance for the Athenians—so much so that Demosthenes (fourth century
BCE), enumerating some of the prominent symbols of Athens’ glory,
grouped the ship-sheds of the dockyards of Peiraieus together with the
Parthenon itself (<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Speech </span>22
section 76)! The atmosphere of the docks on the verge of an expedition
is vividly captured in Greek literature, ranging from the hustle and
bustle
(Aristophanes <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Acharnians </span>544–554)
to a mixture of hope and foreboding on occasions when the ships were
launched in the glory days of the Athenian Empire (Thucydides 6.30–32).
Even after the empire went into decline, the glory of the dockyards of
the Peiraieus was still very much in evidence, as we see from the
testimony of Demosthenes. See also Pausanias 1.29.16, where he speaks
about the rebuilding of the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">neōs
oikoi </span>‘ship-sheds’ of the Peiraieus in the era of the statesman
Lycurgus of Athens, who dominated the cultural and political life of
Athens in the late fourth century BCE. The Roman general Sulla sacked
the Peiraieus in 86 BCE, and so Pausanias in the second century CE would
have seen just a trace of the structures that formerly highlighted the
naval power of Athens. \[\[MM 2014.04.15.\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">Magnesia-at-Maeander</span>… The city
of Magnesia, contiguous with the river Maeander, is situated on the
mainland of Greek Asia Minor. In the time of Themistocles, Magnesia was
part of the Persian Empire. After Themistocles was banished from his
native city of Athens, he eventually defected to the king of the
Persians, Artaxerxes I, who appointed him as ruler of Magnesia. See
Pausanias 1.26.4, also the comments of Habicht 1998:5. On the symbolism
implicit in the name of Magnesia, see HC 3§§77–94. \[\[GN
2017.10.15.\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">tomb of Themistocles at
Peiraieus</span>… This detail in Pausanias 1.1.2 is of special interest
to me. I find it intriguing that Pausanias, visiting Athens in the
second century CE, is foregrounding here a detail about Themistocles
that could easily be ignored by professional Classicists who study only
the testimony of the Classical period of the fifth and the fourth
centuries BCE. It is as if he were saying to such professionals: here is
something that I bet you did not know—or had ignored… Themistocles was
rehabilitated by the Athenians, despite his having defected to the
Persian Empire after his political successes in Athens had gone sour.
And the visible sign of his rehabilitation is his tomb. The tomb of
Themistocles, as a visible reminder, reconnects the memories about
Themistocles with the present. Here the medium of Pausanias, which is a
visual journey that reconnects with the history of the past, shows its
power to reshape or even restore history as he sees it. I see a
comparable gesture of rehabilitation in my comment on a later passage,
Pausanias 1.23.9. \[\[GN 2014.04.13.\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">Parthenon</span>… The political as
well as the cultural significance of the Parthenon here is made evident
by the context. We see here in Pausanias 1.1.2 his first mention of the
Parthenon. The author has not wasted much time in making mention of this
all-important monument. \[\[GN 2017.10.15.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.1.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">théā </span>‘seeing’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">worthy of
viewing</span> \[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">théā</span>\]…
To translate this phrase as ‘worth seeing’ is to blur the significance
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">théā </span>‘viewing, seeing’
as a ritual activity. \[\[GN 2017.10.18.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.1.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hērōs </span>‘hero’;
hero cult; Phaleros; Argonauts; Phaleros as culture hero linked with
myth of the Argonauts; Androgeōs; hero cult of Androgeōs; mystical name
of cult hero as Hērōs; epichoric myths and rituals

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">heroes</span>… So, already at this
early stage in his narrative, Pausanias shows a special interest in hero
cults. \[\[GN 2017.10.15.\]\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">those, however, who pay special
attention to the study of their
local-antiquities </span>\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">enkhōria</span>\] <span custom-style="chs_highlight">know
that</span>… We see here Pausanias in the role of a researcher
interested in epichoric myths and rituals. \[\[GN 2017.10.20.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.1.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Ionia as a region of Asia Minor; Pausanias as a
researcher of Ionian traditions

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On observations made by Pausanias about the cultural identity of Ionia
and the Ionians in Asia Minor, I have comments on one of the examples in
Nagy 2017.06.25 §33, with reference to Pausanias 7.3.3. \[\[GN
2017.11.05.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma </span>‘tomb’;
Antiope the Amazon; first impressions of the visual kind; Antiope the
Amazon as first impression; name of Amazon Antiope as ‘rivaling in
looks/appearances’; Murinē the Amazon; Amazons as cult heroes; Molpadia
the Amazon; war between Amazons and Athenians; Theseus; abduction of
Antiope by Theseus; theme of Amazon falling in love with her
abductor; Hippolyte the Amazon; Megara;
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">lupē</span> ‘pain’; Pindar F
174; Pindar F 175

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<span custom-style="chs_highlight">As one enters the city, there is a
tomb </span>\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma</span>\] <span custom-style="chs_highlight">of
Antiope the Amazon</span>…We read in Frazer 1913 II 37 about the wording
here: “it appears that the tomb of Antiope was just inside the city-wall
of Athens”; Frazer also comments here on the relevant information
provided by Plutarch <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Life of
Theseus </span>27. I find it most significant that the tomb of Antiope
the Amazon should be the very first thing to be seen by Pausanias as he
enters the city of Athens. We have already seen that first impressions
of the visual kind are very important to Pausanias. In the case of the
temple sacred to the goddess Athena at Sounion, for example, the
traveler’s first impression of the goddess there is linked to the
view, <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">from there</span>, of the tip of
Athena’s spear on the Acropolis of Athens. And now, as Pausanias enters
the city of Athens, the very first thing he says he sees is
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma </span>‘tomb’ of
Antiope the Amazon. Once again, the traveler’s first impression becomes
a dominant theme in his narrative. From the wording
at <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad </span>2.811–815, we can see
that the tomb of the Amazon Murinē is pictured there as the monument of
a cult hero: see the comments
at [I.02.811–815](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/6718#Iliad2) in <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">A
Sampling of Comments on the Iliad and Odyssey</span>. Similarly here,
the tombs of the Amazons Antiope and Molpadia are pictured as monuments
of cult heroes. On the symbolism of Athenian myths about a primordial
antagonism between Athens and the Amazons, I refer to my analysis in HC
4§§213–215, 4§224. According to one myth, this antagonism was
precipitated by the abduction of Antiope, queen of the Amazons, by
Theseus, king of Athens. The idea that Antiope then falls in love with
Theseus as her abductor, as mentioned by Pausanias here at 1.2.1, is a
topic that disturbs—and that needs further investigation. Relevant, I
think, is what we read later on at 1.41.7 in the narrative of Pausanias,
where he says that he saw in the city of Megara
a <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma </span>‘tomb’ of another
Amazon, Hippolyte, who was sister of Antiope. Pausanias says that this
tomb was linked with a myth about Hippolyte: how this hero became queen
of the Amazons after her sister Antiope was abducted by Theseus, king of
the Athenians, and how Hippolyte and her fellow Amazons then went to war
against Athens to avenge the abduction. The outcome was a bitter defeat
for the Amazons, and most of them perished in the war, but Hippolyte
survived and sought refuge at Megara, where she died from
her <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">lupē</span>. This
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">lupē </span>as used by
Pausanias at 1.41.7 can best be translated as the ‘pain’ of mourning. By
combining what we read at 1.2.1 and at 1.41.7 in the narrative of
Pausanias, we can piece together a central theme in the overall myth
that is linked to the hero cults of the Amazons Antiope, Molpadia, and
Hippolyte: that all the pain resulting from the war between the Amazons
and the Athenians can be traced back to the primal abduction of Antiope,
queen of the Amazons, by Theseus, king of the Athenians. That abduction
must have been highlighted in a song of Pindar as mentioned by Pausanias
1.2.1. Classicists track this mention by referring to it this way:
Pindar F 175 ed. Maehler. In Pausanias 7.2.6, we read another mention of
these Amazons, and Classicists refer to this mention as Pindar F 174 ed.
Maehler. One final word about the references made by Pausanias to
Amazons as cult heroes: I deliberately use the word “hero” and
not “heroine” in such contexts because I seek to challenge the
assumption, common to native speakers of English, that only men are
heroes. In terms of ancient Greek hero cults, both men and women could
become cult heroes after death, and the wording of Pausanias at 1.2.1
and at 1.41.7 makes it clear that the Amazons Antiope, Molpadia, and
Hippolyte were all three considered to be cult heroes. \[\[GN
2017.11.06.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): court poets and their patrons

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

As an example of the relationship between court poets and their patrons,
Pausanias here at 1.2.2 refers to a Homeric passage at O.03.267–271. The
generic <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">aoidos </span>‘singer’,
as represented by the anonymous figure who is mentioned there, has the
power to supervise the deeds of men and women by way of praising what is
good and blaming what is bad.
The <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">aoidos </span>that Agamemnon
left behind to supervise Clytemnestra cannot be neutralized by way of
removal from the scene.
The <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">aoidos </span>does not need
to see bad deeds in order to tell about them, since he can hear about
them from the Muses. \[\[GN 2017.03.29 via BA 37–38, 2§13n5; PH 392.\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.3.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">harpazein </span>‘abduct’;
Eos; Kephalos; Phaethon; Aphrodite

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On the myth about the abduction of Kephalos by Eos, see the commentary
at O.15.250–251 as presented
in <https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/6718>. On the myth about
the abduction of Phaethon by Aphrodite, as narrated in Hesiod Theogony
986–991 and as mentioned here in Pausanias 1.3.1, see again the
commentary at O.15.250–251.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.3.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Gauls
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Galatai</span>\];
defamiliarizing

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

In his narrative, Pausanias will focus here on the ancient Celtic people
known as the Gauls,
called <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Galatai </span>in Greek,
as they existed in the third century BCE. By maintaining this focus,
Pausanias will be defamiliarizing the Gauls as they existed in his own
time, that is, in the second century CE. I say this because it stands to
reason that educated Greeks in the time of Pausanias would have been
well enough informed about the existence of romanized Gauls living in
the western and non-Greek part of Roman Empire—in what is now northern
Italy, France, and Spain. By contrast, educated Romans in the time of
Pausanias—and even Greeks—would have been relatively unfamiliar with the
reality of earlier Gauls who figured in the pre-imperial history of the
eastern and Greek part of the same Roman Empire.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Ēridanos; Gauls
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Galatai</span>\]; Hēlios;
\[Hēliades ‘Daughters of the
Sun’;\] <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēlektron </span>‘amber’;
Phaethon

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I highlight here the linking of a river named Ēridanos with the ancient
Gauls—<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Galatai </span>in Greek.
Although Pausanias is vague about the location of this river, he is
explicit about linking it with the Gauls, as we see here. Why is he
explicit? In looking for an answer, I turn to an early work of mine
where I studied in some detail the ancient Greek sources concerning this
river: Nagy 1973, rewritten as Ch.9 in the book Nagy 1990b
(page-references to this study of mine will be keyed to the version
printed in the book). As I show in that study, ancient Greek sources
other than Pausanias likewise link the name Ēridanos with rivers flowing
through territories once settled by Gauls: thus, Ēridanos was once the
Greek name for the river Po, located in the formerly Gaulish territory
of northern Italy, and it was also the Greek name for the river Rhône in
France, that is, in the heartland of ancient Gaul (Nagy 1990b:237–238).
But there is a problem with the traditional Greek naming of such real
rivers as the Po and the Rhône. The problem is, the name Ēridanos is
linked not only with these rivers flowing in Gaulish territories. As
Pausanias himself says, Ēridanos is linked also with myths about the
hero Phaethon, son of Hēlios. This hero had plunged into a river by the
name of Ēridanos when the solar chariot that he was driving across the
sky was shattered in a spectacular cosmic crash. There, by the banks of
the river Ēridanos, the dead hero Phaethon, son of Hēlios, will be
lamented forever by his mourning sisters, the Hēliades or ‘Daughters of
the Sun’, who will be shedding tears
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēlektron </span>‘amber’ in
their sorrow for the death of their solar brother. The myth, including
the detail about the tears of amber shed by the Daughters of the Sun, is
most beautifully retold in
the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Hippolytus </span>of Euripides,
where the chorus is singing a song of escapist reveries:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

ἀρθείην δ’ ἐπὶ πόντιον \| κῦμα τᾶς Ἀδριηνᾶς \| ἀκτᾶς Ἠριδανοῦ θ’ ὕδωρ,
ἔνθα πορφύρεον σταλάσ\|σουσ’ εἰς οἶδμα τάλαιναι \| κόραι Φαέθοντος οἴκτῳ
δακρύων \| τὰς ἠλεκτροφαεῖς αὐγάς

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

Let me fly off \[like a bird\], soaring over the sea wave of the
Adriatic headland and the water of Ēridanos, where the wretched girls,
in sorrow for Phaethon, pour forth into the seething sea their
shining-amber
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ēlektrophaeis</span>\] rays of
tears.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_source_attrib">

Euripides <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Hippolytus </span>735–741

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

In the wording of Euripides, as we see in the passage I just quoted, the
river Ēridanos is evidently mythical: on its banks are stationed the
solar sisters of Phaethon, shedding tears of amber that signal the
golden redness of a most spectacular sunset. In the myths about
Phaethon, the river Ēridanos is a cosmic fresh-water stream that
encircles the world, interacting with the celestial dynamics of the sun.
This Ēridanos is like another famous cosmic fresh-water stream, the
river Ōkeanos, which in other myths likewise encircles the world. The
sun sets into the waters of such cosmic streams at sunset and rises from
the same waters at sunrise. And the myth of Phaethon is an episodic
retelling of one aspect of the solar cycle—the aspect of sunset.
Phaethon plunges into the river Ēridanos just as the sun plunges into
the cosmic stream of the Ōkeanos—or of the Ēridanos—at sunset. (For the
sources, I refer to my analysis of the relevant myths in Nagy
1990b:236–238.) Such parallelism between the river Ēridanos and the
river Ōkeanos, was not to last, however: while the first of the two
cosmic rivers remains a river, the second eventually becomes the Ocean
in the current sense of the name—that is, the Atlantic Ocean. (Again, I
refer to my analysis in Nagy 1990b:236–238. In that analysis, I explain
how the myth about Phaethon son of Hēlios god of the sun is distinct
from another myth about Phaethon son of Ēōs goddess of the dawn—a myth
that is also familiar to Pausanias, as we saw already at 1.3.1.)

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

And so, as I already said a minute ago, the river Ēridanos is mythical
in the poetic description of Euripides. But the river Ēridanos is
simultaneously “real” in the wording of that very same
description, <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Hippolytus </span>736–737:
This wording envisions Ēridanos as the river Po, seen at the climactic
moment when its waters stream into the Adriatic Sea at the Gulf of
Venice. (I have further comments in Nagy 1990b: 236–238. At p. 236
there, I should add, I had translated ἐπὶ πόντιον \| κῦμα at lines
735–736 of the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Hippolytus </span>as
‘heading for the sea wave’. I now regret that interpretation, since the
Gulf of Venice is not the final destination of the flying bird, and so I
follow Barrett 1964:300–301 in translating as ‘soaring over’.)

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

For a rationalist like the geographer Strabo (5.1.9 C215), what needs to
be said first and foremost about Ēridanos is that this river simply
cannot be real, belonging as it does to the mythical world of Phaethon
and his cosmic sisters, the Daughters of the Sun. Although Strabo cannot
deny that real rivers can be named Ēridanos, this reality is for him
delegitimized by the existence of myths about a mythical Ēridanos. Even
rationalists like Strabo linked the name Ēridanos primarily with the
myth about a solar boy and the solar girls who forever lament his death
by shedding tears of amber. Thus, Strabo would link the same name only
secondarily with the reality of real rivers named Ēridanos, such as the
Po.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias too is such a rationalist, I think, and that is why he
distances his thoughts from the reality of real rivers named Ēridanos.
For him to be vague about the precise location of the Ēridanos in Gaul
is to achieve such a mental distancing. Even if the Gaulish territories
of northern Italy and southern France, as integral parts of the Roman
Empire, must have been familiar to educated Greeks in the age of
Pausanias, the mythical associations of the name Ēridanos would still
lead to an attitude of defamiliarization in thinking about real rivers
that went by that name in these territories.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

That said, I return to my initial question: why is Pausanias explicit
about linking the name Ēridanos with the Gauls? By now I see that I
should have asked, rather, a different question: why is Pausanias vague
about the existence, inside the territories of the Gauls, of a real
river that the Greeks knew by the name of Ēridanos? And I have already
offered an answer to such a question in my previous comment: Pausanias
is defamiliarizing the Gauls in the western and non-Greek part of the
Roman Empire by way of highlighting the earlier Gauls who figured in the
pre-imperial history of the eastern and Greek part of the same Roman
Empire.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.5.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">phūlē </span>(plural <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">phūlai</span>)
‘subdivision’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Here and elsewhere, I avoid
translating <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">phūlē </span>as
‘tribe’, which is a misleading rendition. See Nagy 1990b:277–293.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.5.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject headings: Procne
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Proknē</span>), Philomela
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Philomēlā</span>), Tereus
(Tēreus).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On the form <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Philomēlā</span>:
grammarians in the ancient world (for example, Herodian 3.1 p. 255 line
14 ed. A. Lentz 1867) called attention to the exceptional
ending <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ā</span> instead of the
expected <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ē</span>. The
catastrophic story of Procne, Philomela, and Tereus is best known today
from the celebrated retelling by
Ovid, <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Metaphorphoses </span>6.401–674.
A briefer retelling of the myth can be found in
“Apollodorus” <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Bibliotheca </span>3.193–195.
These retellings seem to originate from a version of the myth that was
anchored in the region of Athens. Another version, anchored in the
region of Ephesus, is analyzed at §23 in
Nagy [<u>2016.01.07</u>](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/weaving-while-singing-sapphos-songs-in-epigram-55-of-posidippus/).
As for the version anchored in Athens, it is linked to still another
version that is anchored in the region of Megara, as we see later when
we read Pausanias 1.41.8–9, where I offer further comments. Pausanias
refers to the myth of Procne, Philomela, and Tereus also at 9.16.4 and
at 10.4.8–9, where I offer still further comments. For now, I simply
introduce the myth, epitomizing from §§19–23 in Nagy 2016.01.07:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

As we read in
Ovid, <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Metamorphoses </span>6.401–674,
Procne and Philomela are women who become transformed respectively into
the prototypical Nightingale and the prototypical Swallow in the course
of their tragic interaction with the king of Thrace, a man named Tereus.
In some versions of the myth, the names of the two women are more
overt: <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Aēdōn </span>and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Khelidōn</span>,
that is, Nightingale and Swallow (for more such versions, I cite
Levaniouk 2011:215n6). As for the man, King Tereus, he becomes
transformed into a bird known in Greek
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epops</span>. To say it in
English, Tereus becomes the prototypical Hoopoe. The myth about these
three doomed humans who are turned into birds is a story of an Eternal
Triangle. Tereus marries Procne and then violates her sister Philomela,
only to be punished for his crime when Procne takes revenge on her
husband by killing their own son and then serving up the child’s cooked
body to an unsuspecting Tereus, who thinks he is eating the meat of an
animal. That is
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">dikē </span>or ‘retribution’
to which the narrative of Pausanias is referring here. Once Tereus
discovers that his stomach has become the tomb of his own son, Tereus
experiences a grief that matches the grief of the two sisters. The
combined grief becomes too much for all three to bear, and the gods take
pity by transforming them all into birds. In
Ovid’s <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Metamorphoses </span>6.576–578,
we read that Philomela the would-be Swallow weaves into a web the story
of her violation by Tereus. She cannot express the sad story in words,
since Tereus had cut out her tongue and now keeps her imprisoned in a
fortress, hidden away from her sister. For Philomela, the act of weaving
a web becomes a substitute for the act of singing a lament in expressing
her grief.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.6.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Pyrrhos the hero, Pyrrhos the king

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias at 1.11.1 begins here his narrative about
Pyrrhos-son-of-Aiakidēs, king of Epeiros. I have already noted that
Pyrrhos claimed as his ancestor, counting twenty generations backward in
time, the Greek hero Pyrrhos-son-of-Achilles. (Pausanias complicates the
numbering by starting with an ancestor that goes five generations back
and then adding fifteen generations more.) This hero was otherwise known
as Neoptolemos, meaning ‘renewer of war’. As for his name Pyrrhos, it
means ‘fiery red’. Both names are most apt, because the hero
Pyrrhos/Neoptolemos is traditionally pictured in the verbal and visual
arts of the ancient Greeks as a veritable killing machine—whose fiery
temperament in war replicates and thus renews the deadliest wartime
moments of his father. In the case of Achilles, we find a horrific
example of such a moment
at <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad </span>[<u>21.328–384</u>](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/6718#Iliad21),
where the hero goes berserk as he proceeds to slaughter, one after the
next, all the fleeing Trojan warriors whom he overtakes in his murderous
progression of martial fury: the more blood he spills, the more furious
he gets—until he becomes the embodiment of fire itself, since the poetry
of the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad </span>now merges this
warrior’s rage with the cosmic power of Hephaistos as the god of raging
fire. In the case of Pyrrhos/Neoptolemos, such horrific moments of
martial fury are further augmented and multiplied: examples include the
fiery hero’s slaughtering of Priam the old king, of Polyxena the
beautiful princess, and of prince Astyanax, hapless child of Hector and
Andromache.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

A moment ago, I described the hero Pyrrhos as ‘fiery’ in such contexts
of martial fury. I will now elaborate, epitomizing from an earlier work
(BA 122, 7§5; 330–332, 20§12).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

My description ‘fiery’ matches the hero’s
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Púrrhos</span>, deriving
from the
adjective <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhós</span>,
meaning ‘fiery red’, which in turn derives from the
noun <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pûr </span>‘fire’. The
description matches also the association of this hero with a kind of war
dance known as
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē</span>—a word that
likewise derives from the
adjective <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhós</span>. Here
is a basic definition of
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē </span>as we find
it in the ancient lexicographical tradition attributed to Hesychius
(under the entry πυρριχίζειν): τήν ἐνόπλιον ὄρχησιν καὶ σύντονον
πυρρίχην ἔλεγον ‘the word for energetic dancing in armor
was <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē’</span>. In the
work that I am epitomizing, I offered detailed evidence to show that
this kind of war dance was a ritual dramatization
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">biē </span>‘force, violence’
in warfare. I hold back on repeating the details here, except to add
that the
noun <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē </span>is
appropriate to the
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Púrrhos</span>, not only to
the adjective <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhós</span>,
since there are myths that derive the name of the war dance from the
name of the hero. According to the poetry of Archilochus (F 304W), for
example, the
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē </span>refers to
a war dance
because <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Púrrhos </span>danced
such a war dance for joy after he killed the hero Eurypylos in the
Trojan War. According to another tradition, mentioned by Lucian
(<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">On dance </span>9) and by other
sources, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Púrrhos </span>not only
“invented” the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">purrhíkhē</span>:
he also captured Troy through the ignition of this war dance, since he
started the fire that burned down the city when he leapt out of the
Wooden Horse, already dancing his dance and thus igniting the fire.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

As we have already seen, the hero Pyrrhos/Neoptolemos is traditionally
pictured in the verbal and visual arts of the ancient Greeks as a
veritable killing machine—whose fiery temperament in war replicates and
thus renews the deadliest wartime moments of his father. And yet, before
the Trojan War begins, Pyrrhos can be pictured as a most contemplative
young man. He turns into a fiery killing machine only after he arms
himself with the armor of Achilles. As we know from the plot summary of
the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Little Iliad</span>, which is
part of the so-called epic Cycle, this armor is handed over to Pyrrhos
by Odysseus (p. 107 lines 29–30 ed. Allen 1912). I show here a close-up
from a vase painting by Douris, dated at around 490 BCE, which pictures
a moment when Pyrrhos the hero reaches out to receive the helmet of his
dead father, Achilles. The expression on the hero’s face is still
composed and collected as he contemplates the helmet that he holds
delicately in his hand. But the profile of the helmet that is facing him
seems to have a face of its own, a dead face that is staring back at
Pyrrhos, returning the young man’s gaze. The dead face is radiating its
own vision of death in war.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image5.jpg"
style="width:2.54167in;height:2.88889in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Pyrrhos holding the helmet of Achilles as he receives the armor of
Achilles from Odysseus. 500–450 BCE, by the painter Douris. Image via
Wikimedia Commons.\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): transition

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

We see here an abrupt transition from the narrative about Pyrrhos, which
has just come to an end at 1.13.9.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>(+ dative
case) ‘in responsiveness to’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The syntax of the
preposition <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>(+ dative
case) is analyzed in my comment at 1.14.6. In the context of 1.14.6, the
dative case that goes with the
preposition <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>there
involves the persona of a cult hero, Erikhthonios. In the present
context, there is no involvement of a hero, though the dead at Marathon
were in the course of time treated as cult heroes. That is why I apply
here as well my experimental translation ‘in responsiveness to’.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.6

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Erikhthonios;
Erekhtheus; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>(+ dative
case) ‘in responsiveness to’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The myth of the hero Erikhthonios, as mentioned here at 1.14.6, was
already mentioned at 1.2.5, where Pausanias reported that Erikhthonios
was born, so they say, not
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">anthrōpoi </span>‘humans’ but
from Mother Earth
or <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Gē</span>/<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Gaia</span>,
and that his father was the divine smith Hephaistos. Pausanias keeps
Erikhthonios distinct from Erekhtheus, who is described at 1.5.3 as the
grandson of Erikhthonios. In Homeric poetry, however, Erikhthonios is
not distinct from Erekhtheus, and it is the second of the two names that
refers to the hero who was born of Mother Earth. There is a reference to
the hero cult of this Erekhtheus
in <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad</span> 2.547, where he is
described as a prototypical human: the goddess Earth gave birth to him
and the goddess Athena ‘nursed’ him
(548 <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">threpse</span>). In this
context, Erekhtheus is pictured as a cult hero who is worshipped by the
Athenians in a festive setting of seasonally recurring sacrifices. The
link between Athena and this cult hero Erekhtheus is reflected also in
another Homeric reference,
at <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Odyssey </span>7.78–81. As I argue
in HC 1§138, the figure of this cult hero underwent a mitosis. The one
figure with one name becomes two figures with two names. In the
evolution of Athenian myths and rituals, the name Erikhthonios displaced
the name Erekhtheus in occupying the older role of the prototypical
human conceived by the goddess Earth, while the name Erekhtheus was
reassigned to the newer role of a dynastic grandson of Erikhthonios. In
terms of this pattern of displacement and reassignment, as we see most
clearly from the narrative of “Apollodorus”
(<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Library </span>3.187–189),
Erikhthonios now became the name of the prototypical human who was
begotten by the god Hephaistos, born of the goddess Earth, and ‘nursed’
by the goddess Athena
(3.189 <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">etrephen</span>). Here at
1.14.6, Pausanias says cryptically that he knows a myth about a
relationship between Erikhthonios and Athena. One way to describe such a
relationship, I suggest, is to say that Erikhthonios is the son that
Athena “never” had. And here is how I would explain the scare quotes
that envelop my wording “never” in referring to a myth about any
relationship between Erikhthonios and Athena. As we see from several
sources, including the text of “Apollodorus” as already cited, there was
a myth that told how Hephaistos had tried to have sex with Athena, but
his semen fell on the ground instead and thus impregnated Earth. The
myth is analyzed most perceptively by Douglas Frame (2009:461–462), who
shows that earlier versions of such a myth could have pictured Athena
herself as a Mother Goddess in her own right, so that she could have
been once upon a time not only the wet nurse but also the mother of
Erekhtheus as the earthling hero of the Athenians. In terms of such an
analysis, Erikhthonios eventually displaced Erekhtheus as the
prototypical earthling hero, though the sacred space that housed the
myths and rituals concerning Erikhthonios and the goddess Athena
<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Poliás</span> continued to be
defined by the name Erekhtheus, as we see from the context of the
reference made by Pausanias at 1.26.5 to this space as
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Erekhtheion </span>or
Erechtheum. There will be more to say about Erikhthonios as a cult hero
in the comment on Pausanias 1.24.7, but for now I confine myself to a
brief remark about what I think is the relevant syntax of the
preposition <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>(+ dative
case) here in Pausanias 1.14.6. This syntax is linked with contexts of
hero cult, where the spirits of dead heroes require some kind of
response from the living who worship them. I analyze such contexts in PH
121 = 4§7; also in H24H 8a §10, where I
translate <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">epi </span>as ‘in
compensation for’. But I now experiment with a new translation, ‘in
responsiveness to’, in order to convey the idea that an act or even a
thought of compensation by the worshipper is actually required by the
spirit of the dead hero who is being worshipped. By being responsive to
the requirements of the heroes that they worship, worshippers can take
full responsibility for them.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.14.7

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Aigeus, Procne
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Proknē</span>), Philomela
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Philomēlā</span>); <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">dēmoi </span>‘demes’;
epichoric myths

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On Procne and Philomela, sisters of Aigeus, see the comment on 1.5.4.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.15.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Stoā
Poikilē </span>‘painted portico’; Amazons; Hēraklēs; Ajax;
Cassandra; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">graphē </span>‘painting’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias here mentions two separate myths having to do with Amazons.
One of the myths has already been mentioned by him at 1.2.1 and will be
mentioned again at 1.17.2 and at 1.25.2 and yet again at 1.41.7 (further
mentions at 2.31.4, 2.32.9, 5.11.7, 7.2.7): this myth is about the war
between the Amazons and the Athenians, when the female warriors attacked
Athens in retaliation for the abduction of their queen Antiope by
Theseus. The second of the two myths has not been mentioned by Pausanias
before now: this myth is about the intervention of the Amazons in the
Trojan War, where they fought against the Achaeans—and thus against the
Athenians as well. This myth focuses on a mortal combat between Achilles
and Penthesileia, queen of the Amazons, and the story of their combat,
which led to the death of the queen, was told in the epic Cycle
(specifically, in
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Aithiopis</span>, attributed
to Arctinus of Miletus, plot-summary by Proclus p. 105 lines 22–26 ed.
Allen 1912). I offer a commentary on this story in H24H 3§§4–9, with
references to the retellings of this story in the visual art of vase
painting.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.15.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Marathon the
hero; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hērōs </span>‘hero’;
Marathon the place; Athena; Theseus;
Hēraklēs; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">graphē </span>‘painting’;
Ekhetlos

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias says here that the name Marathon applies to a cult hero, that
is, to a figure who is worshipped by the local population, and that the
locale of Marathon is named after him. We see here that a place-name can
be simply a hero’s name. Another example where a place-name is
attributed to a cult hero’s name is Kolōnos, named after a cult hero
called Kolōnos, as we see in
Sophocles <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Oedipus at
Colonus </span>59. Commentary in H24H 18§§2–4.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">graphē </span>‘painting’;
Battle of Athenians and Amazons

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I have already noted the passing reference made by Pausanias here at
1.17.2 to the Amazonomachy. And I have also already noted the previous
references made by Pausanias, at 1.2.1 and at 1.15.2, to the fighting
between the Amazons and the Athenians as led by their prototypical king
and primary cult hero, Theseus. Here at 1.17.2, Pausanias is referring
to the Amazonomachy as pictured in two different media of the visual
arts. One of these media is <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">monumental
wall painting</span>, while the other
is <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">monumental metalwork</span>. At
1.15.2, Pausanias had said that he saw a monumental wall painting that
pictured the Amazonomachy, and that the painting was housed in
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Stoā Poikilē</span>. Here at
1.17.2, Pausanias is saying that he saw another such monumental wall
painting that pictures the battle—and, in this case, the painting was
housed in the sanctuary of Theseus. Then, in practically the same
breath, Pausanias now mentions yet another picturing of the battle. But
here the medium is not <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">monumental wall
painting</span> but <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">monumental
metalwork</span>, and, as we know from the wording of Pausanias, the
person who created this work of art was none other than the great
Athenian artist Pheidias. In this case, the creation of Pheidias was a
gigantic Shield of Athena, which was positioned at the side of a
gigantic gold-and-ivory statue of a standing Athena Parthenos, likewise
a creation of Pheidias, which dominated the interior of the Parthenon.
This Shield of Athena will be mentioned one more time by Pausanias, in
passing, at 1.24.7.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

From other ancient sources, we can learn more about the Shield of
Athena, this celebrated masterpiece of metalwork created by Pheidias
himself. I have studied one of these sources in HC 4§§213–215, and here
I give an epitome of what I said there:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

{4§213.} As we see from the description of Pliny the Elder, the convex
exterior of the gigantic Shield of Athena, positioned at the side of the
gigantic gold-and-ivory statue of Athena herself in the Parthenon,
featured a pictorial narrative of the Amazonomachy; as for the concave
interior, it featured a pictorial narrative of the Gigantomachy
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Gigantomakhiā</span>), that is,
the primal conflict between the gods and the giants
(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">gigantes</span>). Here is the
wording of Pliny (<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Natural
History</span> 36.18): <span custom-style="chs_Latin">in scuto eius
Amazonum proelium caelavit intumescente ambitu, \<in\> parmae eiusdem
concava parte deorum et Gigantum dimicationes</span> ‘on her \[=
Athena’s\] Shield he \[= Pheidias\] chased
\[<span custom-style="chs_Latin">caelāre</span>\] the Battle of the
Amazons in the convex part, while he chased in the concave part of the
same shield the conflicts of gods and giants’.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

{4§214.} The pictorial narratives featured on the two sides of the
Shield of Athena were not painted by Pheidias, as had once been thought;
rather, the Shield was a masterpiece of metalwork. Here is a useful
formulation by an expert (Leipen 1971:49): “the interior as well as the
exterior of Athena’s Shield
was <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">chased</span>, not painted.” Pliny
the Elder, in the statement I quoted just a moment ago
(<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Natural History </span>36.18), says
explicitly that Pheidias
‘chased’, <span custom-style="chs_Latin">caelavit</span>, the surface of
the Shield: that is, he worked it in metal
(verb <span custom-style="chs_Latin">caelāre </span>‘chase’). Another
expert has this to say about the testimony of Pliny (Thompson
1939:297–298):
“<span custom-style="chs_Latin">caelavit </span>means <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">chased </span>and
is commonly used for metalwork in relief, certainly not for painting
\[…;\] the shield of the great Athena, being of gold, had no reason
whatsoever for being painted inside or out.” Following the lead of these
expert formulations I conclude that the metalwork of the Shield was in
bronze, with a gilded surface.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

{4§215.} I propose that there is a mythological symbolism inherent in
combining the Amazonomachy on the convex surface of the Shield with the
Gigantomachy on the concave surface. The exterior narrative of the
Shield, about the Amazonomachy, celebrates the dominance of male over
female, which corresponds to the dominance of Athena’s male exterior
over her female interior. As for the interior narrative, it celebrates
the dominance of the Olympian over the earthbound or “chthonic,” which
corresponds to the dominance of Athena’s affinities with the Olympians
gods over her affinities with the goddess Earth and the Giants that
Earth generated in revolt against the Sky. Besides the mythological
text, as it were, of these two narratives, there was also a political
subtext: sub-narratives that were worked into the Shield may have evoked
indirectly the prestige of Pericles and even of Pheidias himself
(<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Life of Pericles </span>31.3–4).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Here in my comments on the monumental metalwork of the Shield of Athena
as created by Pheidias, I concentrate not on any political subtext but
rather on the mythological agenda inherent in the narrative of the
Amazonomachy as paired with the narrative of the Gigantomachy. Such
agenda, I argue, must be primarily relevant to the identity of the
goddess Athena herself as an exteriorization of Athenian men and as an
interiorization of Athenian women. Although it is disturbing for us to
contemplate the idea of subordinating women to men in the picturing of
foreign female warriors being defeated by Athenian male warriors, that
idea is relevant, in terms of my argument, to the identity of Athena
herself. I have presented such an argument in HC 4§§216–236
(supplemented in MoM Chapter 3), where I connected a scene showing the
Presentation of the Peplos or Robe as pictured in Block 5 of the
Parthenon Marble Frieze that wraps around the inside of the Parthenon
with another scene showing the Birth of Pandora as pictured on a Bronze
Frieze, again created by Pheidias, which adorns the base of the
gold-and-ivory statue of Athena Parthenos. There is not enough space for
me here to analyze the interconnectivity of the visual narratives that
were sculpted into the Marble Frieze and metalworked into the Bronze
Frieze, but I do need to offer a brief summary of what I argue about the
interconnectivity of the visual narratives metalworked into the Shield
and sculpted into the marble metopes of the Parthenon. The summary that
follows is an epitome of a lengthier argument as presented in HC 4§224:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

The marble metopes adorning the exterior of the Parthenon show the
Battle of the Gods and Giants on the east side, the battle of the
Athenians and Amazons on the west, the battle of the Lapiths and
Centaurs on the south, and the battle of the Achaeans and Trojans on the
north. In this case, the Gigantomachy that is sculpted into the east
metopes balances the Amazonomachy sculpted into the west metopes.
Similarly, the Gigantomachy that is metalworked into the concave
interior of the Shield of Athena balances the Amazonomachy that is
metalworked into the convex exterior. So, the contents of the east and
the west metopes of the Parthenon’s exterior correspond respectively to
the contents of the concave interior and convex exterior of the Shield
of Athena.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

From this brief summary of my argumentation, I hope I have made it clear
that the narrative of the Amazonomachy needs to be treated as a myth
that is interconnected with other myths that are relevant to the goddess
Athena and to her city of Athens. And we cannot afford to lose sight of
the more basic fact that the narrative of the Amazonomachy is a myth. I
find it most unhelpful, therefore, to ignore the semantics at work in
this myth by trivializing its narrative as if it were some kind of
pseudo-modern fiction—or, maybe even worse, some kind of ancient
pseudo-history. I am convinced that this myth cannot be analyzed without
an anthropological perspective, and, for such an analysis to be
successful, we need to compare other myths that are traditionally
correlated with the Amazonomachy, such as the myth of the Gigantomachy.
This kind of comparison is what I have attempted here, however briefly.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I should add that the correlation of the Battle of Athenians and Amazons
with the Battle of the Lapithai and Centaurs in the marble relief
sculptures of the metopes adorning the exterior of the Parthenon needs
to be compared with a parallel correlation in the monumental wall
paintings of the sanctuary of Theseus: as we saw in Pausanias 1.17.2,
the Battle of the Athenians and Amazons as depicted in the wall
paintings there is correlated with the Battle of the Lapithai and
Centaurs: our traveler notes that he saw depicted in the wall paintings
there the moment when Theseus, fighting on the side of the Lapithai, had
just killed a Centaur.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Such correlations of multiple myths, I suggest, show us how to deal more
effectively with whatever strikes us as disturbing in the content of any
single myth. And I have something more general to say about things we
find in myths that are in fact morally disturbing to us. My overall
experience in reading ancient Greek myths has led me to expect that
these narratives will accentuate the dysfunctionality of human behavior
in the age of myth. In terms of myth, any error in the remote past of
myth will need to be compensated by the correctness of ritual behavior
as practiced in the post-mythical age of the notional present. The point
I have just made has been developed at length in the book H24H, as at
8§§18–21. In the case of the Amazonomachy, a myth about prototypical
Athenian men fighting prototypical non-Athenian women, I see a story of
human error in the age of myth that needs to be corrected in the
post-mythical age by a pattern of human correctness where men and women
become united in marriage as overseen by their goddess Athena.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

One element that was missing in my earlier study of the Amazonomachy was
an exploration of the narrative action that was metalworked by Pheidias
into the convex side of his monumental Shield of Athena. In that study,
HC Chapters 1 and 4, I explored only the narrative of the action that
this artist had metalworked into the concave side of the Shield. That
narrative from the concave side, which was the story of the
Gigantomachy, has been meticulously reconstructed by art historians,
mostly on the basis of one particular vase painting that I analyzed at
some length in the chapters I have just cited. Whereas the primary basis
for reconstructing the narrative of the Gigantomachy as pictured by
Pheidas has been the evidence of attested vase paintings that picture
the same basic narrative, the primary basis for reconstructing the
narrative of the Amazonomachy as metalworked by the same great artist
into the concave side of the Shield has been the evidence of attested
sculptures that were evidently meant to replicate the metalworked
visualization of Pheidias himself. In the present study, I have started
to take a close look at these attested sculptures, especially at the
so-called Peiraieus Reliefs dating from the second century CE. In this
regard, I am most persuaded by the work of Volker Michael Strocka (1967;
also 2005) and by the earlier work of Evelyn B. Harrison (1966) on the
Peiraieus Reliefs and on other related sculptural evidence in arguing
for a faithful replication of the relevant images as composed by
Pheidias himself in the fifth century BCE.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

In closing, I focus on two pictures. The first picture is a line drawing
that reconstructs the world of images that had been metalworked by
Pheidias into the convex surface of Athena’s Shield. The second picture
is a close-up color photograph showing the reconstructed
Athena-with-Shield as housed in Nashville. Featured there on the surface
of the Shield is the narrative of the Battle of Athenians and Amazons in
all their metallic glory. I find it most moving, somehow, to see the
ivory fingers of the goddess as they make contact with the upper rim of
her gigantic metal Shield. Both in the line drawing and in the color
photograph, you get a good view of Athena’s white fingers poised over
the action of the battle that is ongoing below. And, if you look closely
in both pictures, you can see on the lower right corner of Athena’s
Shield that striking detail from the Amazonomachy where the beautiful
Amazon with the flowing hair, in her stop-motion choreography of death,
is forever prevented from leaping forward and reclaiming her freedom
from domination by men.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image6.png"
style="width:4.51042in;height:4.51042in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Reconstruction of the Amazonomachy scenes on the exterior of the
shield of the Athena Parthenos. Plate 38 of E. B. Harrison, “The
Composition of the Amazonomachy on the Shield of Athena Parthenos,”
Hesperia 35 (1966), pp. 107–133. Courtesy of the Trustees of the
American School of Classical Studies at Athens.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image7.jpeg"
style="width:3.12778in;height:4.17014in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Shield of Athena Parthenos, Nashville Parthenon, Tennessee. Image via
Flickr user Lucas, reproduced under a CC BY 2.0 license.\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">graphē </span>‘painting’;
sanctuary of
Theseus; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-sōzein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-sōzesthai</span>)
‘bring back to
safety’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">sphrāgis </span>‘signet-ring’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">stephanos </span>‘garland’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image8.png" style="width:5.68056in;height:4.125in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Theseus re-emerging from his dive into the sea, carrying the ring of
Minos and the starred garland of Amphitrite. Drawing after a cast of a
neoclassical gem, once in the Poniatowski Collection. Currently in the
collection of Prof. Klaus Mueller, Bonn, cataloged and photographed by
the Classical Art Research Centre.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

In Nagy 2017.06.10 1§§50–51, supplemented by 1§§18–23, I have analyzed
the details of the monumental wall painting as described by Pausanias at
1.17.3. I give here an epitome:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§50.} As a symbol, the Ring of Minos links the Minoan Empire to the
imperial ideology of Athens as represented by Theseus. The mentality
of <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">finders</span>
<span custom-style="chs_emphasis">keepers </span>applies: Theseus finds
the Ring of Minos at the bottom of the sea, where Amphitrite, pictured
here as the goddess of the Aegean, freely gives it to him. Here I must
add that the Ring of Minos can be seen as a signet ring that seals
documents of state written in parchment.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§§18–23.} Documents written on parchment and then sealed with a signet
ring are a distinctive feature of administrative practices perfected in
the era of the Minoan Empire. Accordingly, the signet ring is a visible
sign or symbol of empire.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§51.} And a visible sign or symbol of the idea that Theseus actually
marries the sea is the golden garland that the sea-goddess gives to him
when he dives into the depths of the Aegean to retrieve the Ring of
Minos.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

What follows is an epitome from
Nagy [2017.06.10](http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn-3:hlnc.essay:Nagy.Diachronic_Homer_and_a_Cretan_Odyssey.2017) 2§1:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{2§1.} There is another version of the myth about the deep-dive of
Theseus to the bottom of the sea: this version is narrated in Song 17 of
Bacchylides, where we read further details that are in some ways the
same and in some ways different: after Theseus dives into the depths of
the sea, the sea-goddess Amphitrite welcomes him, enveloping the hero in
a purple robe, line 112, and crowning his head of hair with a garland
made of roses, line 116 (ῥόδοις)—a garland that she herself as a bride
of Poseidon the sea-god had received as a wedding present from
Aphrodite, lines 113–116. When Theseus finally comes back up for air,
emerging from the depths of the sea, he is wearing the purple robe and
the garland of roses, ready to confront Minos. From here on, it will be
Theseus and not Minos who will have dominion over the Aegean Sea, and
this dominion is expressed by the symbolism of both the purple robe and
the garland of roses.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I should add that Song 17 of Bacchylides is not explicit about the
recovery of the signet ring, though there is a clear reference to it at
lines 60–62, when the ring is about to be thrown overboard. And, here at
line 60, we see a new detail: the ring is golden, just as the garland is
golden in the version described by Pausanias at 1.17.3.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On the other hand, Song 17 of Bacchylides is quite explicit in its
picturing of dolphins carrying Theseus in the course of his transition
to the bottom of the sea, lines 97–101, just as the hero in the modern
miniature carving is pictured as being carried on the back of a dolphin.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Another detail in the modern miniature is worth noticing: the garland
that is held by the hero is studded with stars.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image9.png"
style="width:2.53194in;height:2.53194in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

This garland corresponds to the constellation known as the Garland of
Ariadne, and the mythology of this constellation may well date back to
the era of Minoan civilization: I offer comments on the background in
Nagy 2017.06.10 5§§1–3.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deesthai</span>)
‘tie down’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The mythological theme of being <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">tied
down </span>or <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">bound </span>(as in the
wording <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Prometheus Bound</span>) is
expressed by such verbs
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deesthai</span>),
which conveys the mystical idea of cosmic as well as personal
immobilization. Conversely, the mythological theme of being freed from
such immobility is to be mystically ‘saved’, as expressed by way of
verbs
like <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">an-agein </span>‘bring back
\[to
safety\], <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">komizein </span>‘bring
to
safety’, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">sōzein </span>‘save’.
But Pausanias here is downplaying the mysticism associated with such
words, since he prefers here to view place-names associated with myths
and rituals in such a way as to shade over those myths and rituals.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ekhein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ekhesthai</span>)
‘hold back’; Menestheus

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The use of the
verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ekhein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ekhesthai</span>)
‘hold back’ is parallel here to the use of the
verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">deesthai</span>)
‘tie down’, seen earlier, in conveying the mystical idea of cosmic as
well as personal immobilization. Here again, Pausanias is downplaying
the mysticism associated with such words, since he prefers to view the
place-names associated with the myths and rituals of Thesprotia in such
a way as to downplay the mythological aspects. If the names that are
linked with local myths and rituals are detached from those myths and
rituals, they can then be viewed superficially as devoid of cosmic
significance. So, for example, the name Akheron may be linked with the
rituals and myths of the Thesprotians, signifying a mystical contact
with the world of their dead, but if you take their myths and rituals
away, then their Acheron becomes just another river in just another
locale. That way, Theseus is now ‘held back’ not in the local equivalent
of Hadēs but in Thesprotia.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.17.6

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s):
Menestheus; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">komizein</span> (<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">komizesthai</span>)
‘convey, bring back to
safety’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-komizein</span> (<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-komizesthai</span>)
‘convey, bring back to
safety’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-sōzein </span>(<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">ana-sōzesthai</span>)
‘bring back to safety’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Although Pausanias has demystified the myth about the immobilization of
Theseus in Hadēs, the verbs he uses in referring to the hero’s return
from Thesprotia are more appropriate to an escape from Hadēs—followed by
a mystical return to light and life.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Erikhthonios; Kekrops; daughters of Kekrops;
Aglauros, Hersē,
Pandrosos; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">kibōtos </span>‘box’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">autokhthōn </span>‘autochthon,
one whose self is linked to the Earth’; autochthony; Battle of Gods and
Giants

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The mystical vision experienced by the daughters of Kekrops, as narrated
here at 1.18.2 by Pausanias, is relevant to the identity of Kekrops
himself, their father, whose form is human from the waist up and
serpentine from the waist down. To say it in Greek: Kekrops
is <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">diphuēs </span>‘double-natured’
(scholia for
Aristophanes <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Wasps </span>438): he is
half human, half snake. This biformity of Kekrops is shown clearly in
some ancient visual representations. In the picture I show here, for
example, we see Kekrops in attendance at the moment when Gaia/Gē the
Earth Mother hands over to Athena the infant Erikhthonios:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image10.jpeg"
style="width:3.75556in;height:4.17014in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Melian clay relief, about 460 BCE. Gaia offers Erichthonios to Athena.
On the right, Kekrops. Image via Wikimedia Commons.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The half-human and half-snake identity of Kekrops here is a sign, I
argue, of the shock experienced by the daughters of Kekrops in seeing an
Earth-born baby that is likewise half-human and half-snake. The girls
are looking at the true form of a
true <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">autokhthōn</span>, an
autochthon. The word means literally ‘one whose self is linked to the
Earth’. Here is a ‘self’ who is literally born of the Earth, of
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">khthōn</span>. But what
about the girls themselves? What about their own selves? What about
their own humanity? Having a father like Kekrops, should the girls not
expect to be biform themselves? Perhaps, then, the realization that the
Earth-born baby is biform leads to the girls’ self-realization, that
they, too, must be biform. It is I think the suddenness of such a
self-realization that drives them mad.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The biformity of an autochthon can also be a kind of bivalence. When we
get to Pausanias 1.24.7, we will see that Erikhthonios himself can be
visualized not only as half-snake but also as all-snake. Pausanias
himself experiences such a visualization at 1.24.7 when he is describing
the colossal gold-and-ivory statue of Athena Parthenos inside the
Parthenon. Pausanias sees there, with his own eyes, the hero
Erikhthonios standing next to the goddess, and the hero here is
all-snake, seen in his fully serpentine glory. But in other contexts of
Athenian myth, as I will note when I get to my comment on Pausanias
1.24.7, Erikhthonios can also be visualized as all-human, not only as
all-snake. I should add that, in our own non-Greek way of thinking, our
comfort level with the human form of this hero can lead to an
accentuation of the human side even at the moment when the primal
biformity of the baby Erikhthonios is first discovered. A relevant
painting by Rubens captures beautifully an accentuation of the baby’s
human side, despite the clear visual markers of his serpentine side:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image11.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:6.9625in" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Finding of Erichthonius (1632/1633). Peter Paul Rubens (Dutch,
1577–1640). Image via Wikimedia Commons.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

As for the ground-level human condition of being born half-human and
half-snake, I think we see at work a normalization of this primal
biformity in the myth about the Battle of Gods and Giants, where the
gods are seen in their all-human form—though this form is of course far
greater in proportion to our everyday human form— while the giants, once
they start losing the battle, are visualized in the process of
undergoing a metamorphosis: they are changing in form from all-humans to
half-snakes and then to all-snakes. I epitomize here from my relevant
formulation in HC 1§§131–132:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§131.} Once the earth-born giants start to lose their struggle against
the sky-born gods of Olympus, their legs begin to turn into serpents. In
surviving pictorial representations of the Gigantomachy, some of the
struggling giants are shown still having human legs to stand on while
others of the giants are already showing serpents where we expect to see
legs, and I interpret this variation as a dynamic representation of
their devolution—from the status of aspiring sky-dwellers back to the
status of the earth-bound denizens they really are.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§132.} Once the Olympian gods start winning the battle, the giants
find themselves having no leg to stand on. Their resistance collapses.
The twin serpents we see extending from their lower bodies may now be
allowed to follow the natural instincts of serpents and slip back, head
first, into the hollows of the same mother Earth that had generated them
in the first place.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.18.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Theseus; Ariadne; Dionysus

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The myth about the abandonment of Ariadne by Theseus while she is asleep
is illustrated most strikingly in this vase painting.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

<img src="./media/image12.png" style="width:6.5in;height:4.96389in"
alt="draft js image error" />

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

\[Painting on a lekythos attributed to the Pan Painter, dated around 470
BCE (Taranto IG 4545). The line drawing, presented in rollout mode, is
by Tina Ross.\]

</div>

The themes in this painting are analyzed at length in Nagy 2013,
“Virgil’s verse invitus, regina … and its poetic antecedents.” Also
relevant is another article: Nagy,
G. [2017.06.10](http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn-3:hlnc.essay:Nagy.Diachronic_Homer_and_a_Cretan_Odyssey.2017),
“Diachronic Homer and a Cretan Odyssey.” I epitomize what I have to say
about this painting there at 5§§7–10:

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{5§7.} This picture captures the moment when Athena appears to Theseus
after he has made love with Ariadne. The couple has fallen asleep after
the lovemaking, but Athena awakens Theseus, gently gesturing for him to
be quiet and not to awaken Ariadne, who is held fast in her sleep by a
little figure of Hypnos perched on top of her head. The details have
been described this way (Oakley and Sinos 1993:37):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

Here we see the couple at the moment of separation. Athena has just
wakened Theseus, and as she bends over him he begins to rise, bending
one leg and sitting up from the pillow on which he has lain next to
Ariadne. Athena tries to quiet him as he stretches out his arm, a
gesture of remonstration or inquiry. In the upper left hand corner is a
small female figure flying into the night.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{5§8.} I note that the small female figure who is “flying into the
night” is disheveled, with her hair flying in the wind and with her
clothing in disarray. I interpret this figure as a prefiguring of
Ariadne herself at a later moment, the morning after, when she wakes up
to find that she has been abandoned by Theseus. I recall here the verse
in Catullus 64.63 where the headdress that had held the hair of Ariadne
together has now come undone, and she looks like a bacchant, a frenzied
devotee of Bacchus, that is, of the god Dionysus. And it is this same
Bacchic frenzy, signaled by her disheveled hair, that will now attract
Dionysus to her.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{5§9.} In contrast to the morning after, when Ariadne in her Bacchic
frenzy will come undone, the picture of Ariadne in the present is eerily
peaceful (Nagy 2013b:161–162):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

Ariadne faces us directly, an unusual pose that points to her oblivion
to what is happening behind her as well as allowing us a clear view of
the peaceful contentment registered on her face. Her eyes are closed
tight, and she will not awaken as Theseus departs, for the figure of
Hypnos, Sleep, sits on her head with legs drawn up as he sleeps.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{5§10.} Continuing to look at the picture painted on the lekythos, I
draw attention to another figure. Besides the sleeping Ariadne and the
little sleeping Hypnos perched on top of her head, we see also the
figure of a wakeful boy reclining on the farther side of the bed, to our
left, whose head is positioned directly below the miniature figure of
the hovering girl with the disheveled hair. In my interpretation, this
boy is Eros, who had instigated a night of intense lovemaking between
Ariadne and Theseus.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Odeum of
Pericles; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mīmēsis </span>‘replica’;
tent \[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">skēnē</span>\] of
Xerxes; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">aitiā </span>‘cause’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The building next to the Theater of Dionysus, rebuilt after its
destruction in first century BCE, is none other than the Odeum of
Pericles, a spectacular structure that projected the glories of the
Athenian Empire as the cultural heir of the Persian Empire of Xerxes. It
was this ideological projection that inspired the builders of this
building to give it a shape that re-enacted, as it were, the Great Tent
of the King of Kings. I comment at length in [HC
4](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/3244)§§115–124, 174–180,
especially with reference to
Plutarch <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Pericles </span>13.6-15. I
offer here an epitome of HC4§178:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The idea of the Odeum as a visual imitation of
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Skēnē </span>or ‘Tent’ of
the Great King of the Persian empire, as described in
Plutarch’s <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Pericles</span>, is a most
fitting expression of imperial prestige. The Odeum, as the ‘Scene’ for
the monumental Panathenaic performances of Homer in the age of Pheidias,
was monumental in its own right. On the inside, its “forest of columns”
matched the spectacular effect achieved at
the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Telestērion </span>or Great Hall
of Initiation at Eleusis. In fact, the Odeum was even more spacious than
the Great Hall, and the enormous seating capacity of such a monumental
building made it a most fitting venue for spectacular events of state,
including juridical and political assemblies.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Mount Sipylos; Magnesia-at-Sipylos

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias is reminded here in passing of his homeland, Magnesia in Asia
Minor, and of the mountain looming over the land. See the [comment at
Pausanias
1.1.1](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/samples-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-1-1-the-first-two-sentences/),
§5, about Magnesia-at-Sipylos. This Mount Sipylos, as the dominant
marker of his homeland, stays on his mind as he proceeds to reminisce, a
few moments later, about the Weeping Rock of Niobe at 1.21.3.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject heading(s): Niobe; Mount
Sipylos; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pentheîn </span>‘lament’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">katēphēs </span>‘with
sunken eyes’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The picturing of Niobe as a rock exuding the tears of a fresh-water
mountain stream is attested in the
Homeric [Iliad 24](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/5286#24t).614–617:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

νῦν δέ που ἐν πέτρῃσιν ἐν οὔρεσιν οἰοπόλοισιν

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

ἐν Σιπύλῳ, ὅθι φασὶ θεάων ἔμμεναι εὐνὰς

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

νυμφάων, αἵ τ’ ἀμφ’ Ἀχελώϊον ἐρρώσαντο,

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

ἔνθα λίθος περ ἐοῦσα θεῶν ἐκ κήδεα πέσσει.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

And now, somewhere amidst the rocks, on the desolate heights,

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

in Sipylos, where they say goddesses have places to sleep,

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

the goddess nymphs, the ones who dance on the banks of the Akhelōios,

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_verse_line">

there does she \[= Niobe\], though she has been turned into stone,
digest her sorrows inflicted by the gods.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I offer some detailed comments on this passage in [HC
1](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/3241)§34. Relevant is the
use of the
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">tēkesthai </span>‘dissolve’
in
Sophocles’ [Antigone](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/6475) (828)
picturing a weeping Niobe in a state of petrifaction. This word, as I
analyze it in [HC
2](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/3242)§§254–255 and
2§§346–348, comparing parallel wording elsewhere in Greek poetry,
conjures the image of a cold mountain stream that flows without
interruption from the heights where Niobe turned into stone; her tears
are the uninterrupted source of that eternal stream.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Here is an epitome from my interpretation of other passages referring to
the ‘dissolving’ of Niobe in Greek poetry ([HC
1](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/3241)§34):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The sorrows of Niobe are so overwhelming that she continues to weep
eternally even after the gods turn her into stone. A petrified figure
should be drained of emotion, as we read in the framing narrative
of [Iliad 24](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/5286#24t).601–620:
when the population in the land of Niobe is petrified, there can be no
weeping, no mourning, and therefore no funeral, so that the gods
themselves must conduct a funeral and bury the children of Niobe. But
Niobe, even after she is petrified, is like a human figure in that she
continues to dissolve into tears. So overwhelming are her sorrows.
Unlike the dissolving of a human in mourning, however, this petrified
figure takes forever to dissolve because the tears that pour out of her
sunken eyes flow out of an inexhaustible source of sorrows.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.23.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.7

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I now offer this comment on Pausanias 1.24.7, drawing from an analysis
of this same passage in [HC
1§140](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/3241):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The wording of Pausanias here makes it clear that he is well aware of
the highly charged mysticism of what he is saying when he says that the
serpent who attends Athena Parthenos is none other than the
autochthonous hero of Athens, Erikhthonios. The potential optative,
which I translate as ‘would be’, marks the speaker’s self-awareness at a
sacral moment of contemplation. He is touching on a matter of the
greatest importance for the ideological self-definition of Athenian
citizens as autochthonous supermen who model themselves on the cult hero
Erikhthonios as the prototypical autochthon.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I offer further comment, with reference to my earlier comments on
Pausanias [1.2.6](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/a-sampling-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-2-1-1-3-1/), [1.14.6](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/a-sampling-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-14-1-9/),
and [1.18.2](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/a-sampling-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-18-1-9/):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

At 1.2.6 we saw the first reference made by Pausanias to the myth about
the birth of Erikhthonios from Mother Earth. Then at 1.14.6 we saw a
second reference to this myth, and I noted that Pausanias already there
points to a mystical understanding of the hero’s birth. He says
cryptically that the myth about this birth is saying something mystical
about the relationship between Erikhthonios and Athena. One way to
describe such a relationship, I suggested in my comment on Pausanias
1.14.6, is to say that Erikhthonios is the son that Athena “never” had.
And then, we saw more, much more, in the third reference to the birth of
Erikhthonios at Pausanias 1.18.2, where it was revealed for the first
time that the nature of this prototypical hero of the Athenians was
serpentine as well as human. As I noted in my comment on Pausanias
1.18.2, the biformity of Erikhthonios the autochthon as half-snake and
half-human can also be a kind of bivalence. And now, here at Pausanias
1.24.7, we see that Erikhthonios himself can be visualized not only as
half-snake but also as all-snake. As I predicted already in my comment
on 1.18.2, Pausanias himself experiences such a visualization here at
1.24.7 where he gazes at the colossal gold-and-ivory statue of Athena
Parthenos inside the Parthenon. Pausanias sees here, with his own eyes,
the hero Erikhthonios standing next to the goddess, and the hero here is
all-snake, seen in his fully serpentine glory.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal_posthead">

subject
heading(s): <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arrhēphoroi </span>(Arrhephoroi);
aetiology; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">drân </span>‘do,
ritually-perform’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein </span>‘carry’; <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein </span>‘lead’

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias at 1.27.3 is engaged in correlating a ritual with a myth, thus
pointing to a traditional aetiology. Unlike other interpreters of this
passage, who are legion (there is a most helpful survey in Calame
2001:131–133), I argue that Pausanias here goes out of his way not only
to say some things but also to leave other things unsaid. The
leaving-out is just as intentional as the leaving-in. And I argue
further that such leaving-out of some things is just
as <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">traditional </span>as the
leaving-in of other things. This further argument, which I present here
only its barest outlines, is based on research I have done elsewhere,
especially in an article on traditional wording in other Greek texts
referring to other rituals, Nagy 2017, where I study the wording of the
Linear B tablet Tn 316 from Pylos. In that article, I argue that the
Greek
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein </span>‘carry’,
with reference to
the <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">carrying </span>of ritual objects,
is programmatically linked to the Greek
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein </span>‘lead’, with
reference to <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">leading </span>or at
least <span custom-style="chs_emphasis">directing </span>the carriers
who carry such objects toward their proper ritual destination. The
programmatic linking of such words, as I show in that article by
analyzing not only Greek but also other Indo-European ritual texts,
tends to be strictly controlled by ritual protocols concerning what can
and cannot be spoken. In Pausanias 1.27.3, I now argue, we see a
comparable linking of the
words <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein </span>‘carry’
and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein </span>‘lead’. Even
the element
–<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">phoros </span>‘carrying’ of the
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arrhēphóros </span>(I leave
for another occasion my interpretation of the
element <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">arrhē</span>-) shows the
workings of a traditional interaction
between <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein </span>as a
‘carrying’ of a ritual object
and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein </span>as the
‘leading’ of the carriers by those who give the directions. In the case
of the ritual described by Pausanias at 1.27.3, I note with special
interest this detail: even the priestess of Athena who directs the
Arrhephoroi to carry what they carry is unaware of the contents being
carried—from the standpoint of ritual re-enactment. This ritualized
unawareness corresponds to the mythologized unawareness of the daughters
of Kekrops concerning the contents of
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">kibōtos </span>‘box’
entrusted to them by the goddess Athena. In the myth of the Kekropides
as retold by Pausanias at 1.18.2 and as analyzed
in <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Classical</span>
Inquiries [2018.01.25](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/a-sampling-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-18-1-9/),
the girl Pandrosos refrains from opening the box that contains what is
not to be seen, not to be talked about, and so she remains unaware. By
contrast, the girl Aglauros, together with her sister Hersē, opens the
box out of curiosity and then, becoming aware by way of seeing what she
sees, she plunges to her death from the top of the Acropolis. It has
been argued that the sister Hersē is a later addition to an earlier
mythological pair consisting of Pandrosos and Aglauros (Frame
2009:470–474). Perhaps, then, a new mythological pairing of Hersē and
Aglauros may now be seen as matching the ritual pair of Arrhephoroi who
descend from the top of the Acropolis to “ground zero”. In any case,
the orderly ritual descent of the two Arrhephoroi matches the
catastrophic mythological plunge experienced by two daughters
of Kekrops. And, in the process of their descent, the Arrhephoroi pass
through a natural
underground <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">kathodos </span>‘downward-pathway’
that corresponds to a Mycenaean passage from the Acropolis all the way
down to a spring located at this same “ground zero” (details surveyed by
Pirenne-Delforge 1994:50–59; following mostly Burkert 1966).

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.9

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The tension here between Minos and Poseidon has to do with genealogy:
Minos is son of Zeus, while his rival Theseus is son of Poseidon.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.27.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The visibility of the spear tip of Athena Promakhos, as noted here by
Pausanias, is relevant to [Pausanias
1.1.1](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/samples-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-1-1-the-first-two-sentences/),
as argued at §1.7 of the comments there.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The ‘Pelasgian’ Wall as noted by Pausanias here corresponds to what
archaeologists today call the ‘Cyclopean’ Wall, traces of which were
visible even in the Classical period and beyond.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.6

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias does not specifically mention the cave of the
Eumenides/Erinyes. Still, the reference here to these deities
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hupo-gaioi </span>‘under-earth’
conveys the idea that they dwell in caves. For references elsewhere in
Greek texts, I recommend Henrichs 1994:39. See also [H24H
17§§1–3](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/5960.part-iii-hour-17-looking-beyond-the-cult-hero-in-the-libation-bearers-and-the-eumenides-of-aeschylus).

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.7

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Pausanias is referring here
to <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad </span>23.677–679.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.9

#### A variation on the theme of Athena: The Palladium, as viewed by Pausanias on the Acropolis of Athens

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.0. This excursus is a commentary on a passage in Pausanias, 1.28.9,
where our traveler, while visiting the Acropolis of Athens, refers to a
statue of the goddess Athena there. He is referring in this case not to
Athena Parthénos, that is, to Athena the ‘Virgin’, who was housed in the
Parthenon. Nor is he referring here to Athena Poliás, that is, to Athena
as the Lady of the Citadel, who was housed in the old temple of the
goddess. Rather, the referent here is an ancient wooden statue known as
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Palládion</span>,
conventionally latinized
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Palladium</span>. There were
many divergent myths about the Palladium, but there was general
agreement on at least one convergent detail: originally, myth has it,
the Palladium was housed in the temple of Athena, situated on top of the
acropolis of ancient Troy. In the lead illustration for my comments, I
show a picturing of a familiar scene involving what I think is this very
same Palladium. In this picture—and I could show many other such
pictures, some of which are considerably more ancient than the one I
have chosen—we see the lesser Ajax, son of Oileus, in the act of
violating Cassandra after the capture of Troy by the Achaeans. Seizing
her by the arm, he is about to drag her away from a statue of Athena to
which she is clinging as a suppliant. The goddess, fully armed, with
spear in the right hand and with shield in the left hand, is just
standing there, statue that she is. Now, it goes without saying here
that the goddess will have her vengeance, since she will ultimately
punish the sacrilegious violator. But that is another story. My concern
here is different: the question for now is, how did the Palladium find
its way from the citadel of Troy to the citadel of Athens? And the
answer has to do with the power of the Palladium in the scene that we
see pictured in the illustration that we are considering. The Palladium
is so much more than a static statue—if I am right in thinking that the
statue that we see in this and other such pictures is in fact the
Palladium. I have to say “if” for now, since I cannot simply assume that
this statue, as represented in such pictures, can actually be identified
with the Palladium. As I will argue, however, such an identification
becomes most likely when we consider an Athenian myth, as reported by
Pausanias, 1.28.9, about the appropriation of the Palladium by the
Athenians.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.1. Before we can examine the Athenian myth, I need to say more about
the Trojan myth of the Palladium. In a source dated to the second
century CE, the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Library </span>of
“Apollodorus” (3.12.3 p. 39 ed. Frazer 1921 II), we read that the
Palladium was a wooden statue that fell from the sky, sent by Zeus (it
was <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">diīpetés </span>‘sky-fallen’),
and it landed on earth at Ilion or Troy, where it was received by Ilos,
founder of Troy; this Palladium had been celestially hand-crafted as
a <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">xoanon </span>‘wooden statue’
by the goddess Athena herself in expiation for her involuntary killing
of her mortal body double, the girl Pallas (3.12.3 p. 41).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.2. Similarly, as we read in Pausanias, 1.26.6, there was an Athenian
myth about a statue of Athena Poliás that descended from the heavens and
landed on the acropolis of Athens. In this myth as well, the statue was
made of wood—olive wood, as we read for example in
the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Library </span>of “Apollodorus”
(3.14.6 p. 93 ed. Frazer 1921 II; further sources surveyed by Frame
2009:348n13).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.3. But there is also a significant dissimilarity between the two
statues: whereas the Palladium, in terms of my argument, was standing,
the statue of Athena Poliás was seated (the relevant evidence has been
assembled by Frame 2009:360–361, with bibliography). We find a striking
point of comparison reported by Pausanias himself in another context: at
7.5.9, he speaks of another Athena Poliás, whose temple graced the
citadel of Erythrai in Ionia, and, in this case, Pausanias says
explicitly that this Athena Poliás was in a seated position.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.4. Also, in the
Homeric <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Iliad</span>, 6.92/273/303,
the statue of Athena as worshipped at the acropolis of Troy is pictured
as seated, not standing (that is why the offering of woven treasures can
be placed on her knees). In <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Homer the
Preclassic </span>(Nagy 2009\|2010:207–209), I trace this detail back to
phases in the transmission of Homeric poetry where the statue of the
goddess was pictured in terms of a tradition that contradicted an
alternative tradition as exemplified by the statue of Athena housed in
the citadel of New Ilion, built on the ruins of Old Troy: as we know
from Strabo (13.1.41 C601), the statue of the goddess in the citadel of
New Ilion was not seated but standing, and the same pose is reported
about her statues in citadels elsewhere, as in Phocaea and Chios (Nagy
2009\|2010:207–208).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.5. As I show in <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Homer the
Preclassic </span>(Nagy 2009\|2010:270), the contrast between seated and
standing statues of Athena can become politicized: a case in point is
the choice of a seated Athena in Homeric poetry, which favors the city
of Sigeion in its “Ionic” phase of existence and disfavors the city of
New Ilion in its “neo-Aeolic” phase. The two cities were rival claimants
to the status of being the “real” Troy, and their rivalry was expressed
by way of a contrast between a seated statue of Athena in her temple at
Sigeion and the standing statue in her temple at New Ilion. I should add
that the non-Homeric standing statue of Athena at New Ilion was linked
with rituals involving the so-called Locrian Maidens, who performed
seasonally recurring expiation for the primordial sacrilege committed
against this statue of the goddess by the lesser Ajax, native son of
Locris (details about the Locrian Maidens in Nagy 2019).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.6. That said, I can resume my argument, that the non-Homeric standing
statue of Athena in the citadel of Troy was the Palladium. As I
indicated from the start, the traditions about the Palladium in Athens
will prove to be decisive for the argumentation that follows. I start
right away here with an essential fact about the visual experience of
actually viewing the Palladium: as noted by Guy Hedreen (2001:28),
Athenian iconographic traditions picture the goddesss of the Palladium
as a look-alike of another statue. And that other statue is
Athena <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhos</span>, the
Warrior Goddess of the Athenians. She is standing in guard, forever
protecting the acropolis of Athens, brandishing a spear in her right
hand and a shield in her left hand.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.7. This
Athena <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhos </span>made
quite an impression on Pausanias, as I will now try to show. Picturing
our traveler as he ascends to the heights of the Acropolis, I ask
myself: what would be the very first thing he sees after he reaches the
top? To prepare an answer, I am conjuring in my mind some happy memories
of conversations I have had with my friend Gloria Ferrari Pinney about
this question. The answer I am about to formulate owes much to my dear
friend’s deeper insights. I start by imagining the moments that elapse
right before that final moment when you get to the top of the
Acropolis—if you were living in a time long gone, when Pausanias was
making his own ascent. Before you finally get to the top, you pass
through the Propylaia, that extravagantly palatial gateway that leads
out into the open space of the sacred ground defined by Athena, goddess
of Athens. So, what do you see when you emerge into that open space?
Well, one thing you cannot see very well, not yet, is the Parthenon.
There is a wall occluding a good view of the Parthenon up ahead. That
palatial abode of Athena Parthenos, Athena the Virgin, which is so
ostentatiously visible to all from down below, from almost any angle in
metropolitan Athens down below at ground zero, would be temporarily
blocked from your view up above, now that you have reached the heights
of the Acropolis. This occlusion, which will last until you get past the
wall, can help you focus on something else for now, something that is
standing right in front of you, with the wall as its background. To my
way of thinking, the very first sight to be seen by Pausanias at the top
of the Acropolis would be
Athena <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhos</span>. Our
traveler looks up and sees this colossal bronze statue of the goddess,
around thirty feet tall and armed as a mighty warrior. The epithet of
the goddess, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhos</span>,
can be interpreted as ‘leading the battle’: Athena leads the battle in
protecting her Acropolis. She is ever ready to fight in defense of her
citadel overlooking her city, with a spear in her right hand and a
shield in her left. While Pausanias is looking up at her, she is looking
downward, down toward her approaching adorants. I show here a
reconstruction of such a visual moment:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.8. Just as the sight of
Athena <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhos</span>,
protector of the Acropolis, can preoccupy the vision of Pausanias when
he enters the Acropolis—now he only has eyes for the goddess—this same
sight had preoccupied him retroactively, back when he rounded the
headland of Sounion: already back then, he only had eyes for Athena—in
that case, for Athena Souniás, the goddess who protects the headland
just as Athena Promakhos protects the citadel. The visibility of the
spear tip of Athena Promakhos, as highlighted by Pausanias when he was
rounding the headland of Sounion, has already been noted at §1.7 of the
commentary on [<span custom-style="Hyperlink">Pausanias
1.1.1</span>](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/samples-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-1-1-the-first-two-sentences/).
Elsewhere too, as we read further in Pausanias, we find situations where
Athena is worshipped as a protector presiding over headlands jutting out
into the sea: at 2.34.8–9, for example, where he is describing headlands
and nearby harbors while sailing along the coastline of the
Peloponnesus, Pausanias draws attention to
a <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hieron </span>‘sanctuary’ of
Athena, and the epithet of the goddess, presiding over the landscape and
seascape, is in this case reported to
be <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Promakhormā </span>‘protector
of anchorage’.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.9. With this background in place, I am ready to comment on Pausanias
1.28.9, where our traveler refers to a statue of Athena that is actually
named the Palladion or Palladium, housed in a building that is likewise
called the Palladium, situated on the Acropolis of Athens. In
introducing my commentary, I start with an epitome of my relevant
analysis in <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Homer the
Classic </span>(Nagy 2008\|2009 I §§93–98):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§93} According to the local mythology of the city of Argos, as implied
by the narrative of Pausanias 2.23.5, it was the hero Diomedes who
captured the Palladium from the acropolis of Troy and ultimately brought
the sacred object to the city of Argos as its final resting place. But
Pausanias rejects the Argive version of the narrative. He has good
reason for this rejection, since the Roman version of the narrative was
dominant in his time. More later on the Roman version. For now, it is
enough to note that Pausanias was faced with many variations in
narratives about how, when, and why Diomedes took the Palladium from the
acropolis of Troy, and many of the variant stories involve Odysseus as a
partner of Diomedes in the quest to take it. \[I summarize those
variants at 1§§93–96.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§94} According to the local mythology of the city of Athens, which
rivaled the local mythology of the city of Argos, the final resting
place of the Palladium was not Argos but Athens. Here is a summary of
this Athenian mythology as reported by a variety of sources, including
the narrative of Pausanias 1.28.8–9:

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_blockquote">

Diomedes, sailing home from Troy with the Palladium in his possession,
happened to stop over at the Athenian seaport of Phaleron. Mistaken for
an enemy, Diomedes was attacked by the Athenians, led by a hero called
Demophon. The Palladium was taken by mistake from Diomedes, and thus it
found its final resting place in Athens. It was housed in the ancient
building used for trials involving involuntary homicide; by metonymy,
the building itself was called Palladium. \[Frazer 1929 IV 263 collects
the sources, including Pausanias 1.28.8–9, Polyaenus 1.5, Harpocration
(s.v. ἐπὶ Παλλαδίῳ), and the Suda (s.v. ἐπὶ Παλλαδίῳ).\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal_continue">

I should add here that the ritualized linking of the Palladium with
cases of involuntary homicide can be matched with a myth, which I have
already cited from
the <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Library </span>of “Apollodorus”
 (3.12.3 p. 41 ed. Frazer 1921 II), about the celestial crafting of the
wooden statue of the Palladium—hand-crafted by the goddess Athena
herself in expiation for her involuntary killing of her mortal body
double, the girl Pallas.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§95}  \[What follows here is a comment on an argument that started in
1§89: that the Palladium is not absent but very much present in Homeric
poetry—as an absent signifier—and that Virgil was aware of such an
absent signification, weaving it into
his <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Aeneid</span>.\] In Virgil’s
time, the canonical final resting place of the Palladium was the
circular temple
or <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">aedes </span>of Vesta in
Rome: Dionysius of
Halicarnassus <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Roman
Antiquities </span>1.69, 2.66.5;
Plutarch <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Camillus </span>20;
Pausanias 2.23.5. The question is, who brought the Palladium to Rome
after the capture of Troy? A contemporary of Virgil, Dionysius of
Halicarnassus, says it explicitly: according to Dionysius, Aeneas was
the one who rushed up to the acropolis of Troy and snatched the
Palladium from the fires of destruction at the very last moment, as the
city was going up in flames; then he brought the Palladium with him to
Italy, along with other sacred objects he rescued from the acropolis of
Troy (<span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Roman
Antiquities </span>1.69.2).

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

{1§96} Such a version of the myth is perfectly suited to the ideology of
the Roman empire in the age of Augustus. It links Augustus with the
heroes of Troy, since his adoptive father Julius Caesar was a notional
descendant of Aeneas by way of Ascanius, otherwise named Iulus, the son
of Aeneas. Our source is Strabo (13.1.27 C594–595). \[I go on to argue
at 1§§97–98 that the actual rescuing of the Palladium by Aeneas is a
theme that predates—and is thus originally independent of—any such Roman
appropriation.\]

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

§1.10. I regret that Pausanias rejected the myth of the Palladium as
narrated by the people of Argos. But I see relevance in a detail
mentioned elsewhere by Pausanias, 2.24.2, where he reports on an epithet
given to Athena by her worshippers at a temple situated in the heights
of Argos: she is invoked there by way of the
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Oxuderkḗs</span>, ‘she
with the sharp vision’, because—as the story has it—she helped Diomedes
see through the mist. To my way of thinking, her epithet indicates also
her role as seeing far and wide from her vantage point as Mistress of
the Heights. \[\[GN 2020.06.19\]\]

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.28.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On this ship, I epitomize from [MoM
2§115](https://chs.harvard.edu/CHS/article/display/5976.ii-interweaving-metonymy-and-metaphor) (where
I give further references):

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On the occasion of the spectacular quadrennial parade known as the
Panathenaic Procession,
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">peplos </span>or ‘robe’ of
Athena was displayed as an archetypal Sail rigged to the mast of a float
that re-enacted the archetypal Athenian Ship of State; this float was
rolled on wheels along the Sacred Way, from the Kerameikos through the
Agora, all the way to a sacred space known as the Eleusinion (scholia
for Aristophanes <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Knights </span>566).

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.29.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.30.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I see here a most revealing set of details that point to a Mycenaean
role of Athena. We have just learned that the
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā </span>is applied
to the goddess by the natives of Colonus, just as they apply the
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippios </span>to the
god Poseidon. This epithet, which I translate in both cases as
‘controller-of-horses’, is I think referring primarily to the skill of
charioteering. At a later point in his write-up, at 8.46.1, 4–5,
Pausanias is commenting on a statue of Athena that had been safeguarded
by the people of Tegea in Arcadia—until they were robbed of their prized
possession by their Roman conquerors; they then replaced that statue of
Athena that was lost to Rome by taking another statue of Athena from
another site that was sacred to her—in this case, from a neighboring
Arcadian <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">dēmos </span>or
‘district’ by the name of Manthouria, as we read further in Pausanias
8.47.1. We learn there that the goddess represented by this statue was
called <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā </span>by the
local Arcadian population that worshipped her, and that she was
addressed this way, as ‘controller of the horses’. Pausanias then
proceeds to give the reason for worshipping Athena
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā</span>. In the
mythology of these Arcadians, he reports, Athena went to war as a
charioteer in their local version of a widespread myth traditionally
known as the Battle of the Gods and Giants. With these details in mind,
I now turn to relevant evidence in Mycenaean Greek as written in the
Linear B texts found at Knossos and at Pylos. In these texts, as we are
about to see, the comparable
forms <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānā </span>and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hikkʷeiā </span>are
attested in contexts that correspond to the contexts
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athēnē </span>and <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā </span>as
reported by Pausanias. In analyzing these texts and contexts, I mostly
agree with the relevant argumentation presented in a paper jointly
authored by Joann Gulizia, Kevin Pluta, and Thomas Palaima (2001). The
authors, hereafter abbreviated GPP, concentrate on two texts: the tablet
V 52 from Knossos, which they date around 1400 BCE, and the tablet An
1281 from Pylos, unambiguously dated around 1200 BCE.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

We start with the Linear B tablet V 52 from Knossos. The specific
context of this text, according to GPP, can be traced back—with some
certainty—to the Room of the Chariot Tablets or RCT, as it is known to
archaeologists. This context, as we will see, is relevant to a detail
mentioned by Pausanias at 1.30.4: according to our traveler, as I have
already noted, the goddess Athena is worshipped
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā </span>or ‘charioteer’
at Colonus. But what about the goddess in the text of tablet V 52,
situated in the context of the Room of the Chariot Tablets? She is
mentioned prominently, in the first line of V 52, where we read
a-ta-na-po-ti-ni-ja. The second element, -po-ti-ni-ja,
spells <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potniāi</span>, dative
case of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potnia</span>,
corresponding to classical
Greek <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potnia </span>(πότνια),
meaning ‘mistress, lady’. As for the first element, a-ta-na-, it can be
interpreted as spelling
either <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānāi </span>or <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānās</span>—so,
either the dative or the genitive case of the
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānā</span>,
corresponding to the classical Greek
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athēnē</span>. A big
question remains, though: is this Mycenaean
name <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānā </span>(1) the
personal name of the goddess Athena or (2) a place-name, referring to
the citadel of Athens, a primary residence of the goddess? In the paper
of GPP, a persuasive argument is made for the second of these two
alternative explanations. Crucial for their argumentation is a fact that
I have highlighted in my own work: the fact is, as I showed at §§4–9 in
Nagy 2015.09.10 with reference
to <span custom-style="chs_citetitle">Odyssey</span> 7.78 and with
bibliography referring to earlier phases of my relevant work, the
singular form <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athēnē </span>can
refer in Homeric Greek to the citadel of the goddess Athena in what
later became, already well before the classical era, the city of Athens.
Accordingly, if we follow the interpretation preferred by GPP, the
wording of the first line in the tablet V 52 can be interpreted this
way: ‘to the Lady
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potnia</span>\] of Athens’,
where a-ta-na-
spells <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānās</span>, in the
genitive case, while po-ti-ni-ja
spells <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potniāi</span>, in the
dative. Alternatively, if we were to read a-ta-na-
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Athānāi</span>, in the dative
case, then we could interpret the wording this way: ‘to the Lady
Athena’. Either way, in any case, the referent would be the goddess
Athena, in a Mycenaean phase of her evolution.

</div>

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

But more can be said about such a Mycenaean Athena as a charioteer, to
be matched with the role of the “classical” Athena at Colonus
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Hippiā</span>. Here we turn
to the Linear B tablet An 1281 from Pylos, dated around 1200 BCE. We
read in this text the noun po-ti-ni-ja,
spelling <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potniāi</span>, in the
dative case, and meaning ‘to the Lady
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potnia</span>\]’. Although the
name of the goddess who receives the offering is not indicated, the
identity of the divine referent here is most likely to be the goddess
Athena. As we see from the analysis of GPP (p. 456), the noun
po-ti-ni-ja that we see in the text of this tablet is described by way
of the epithet i-qe-ja, which can be interpreted
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hikkʷeiā</span>, in the
dative case—so,
adjective <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hikkʷeiāi </span>describing
and agreeing with the
noun <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potniāi</span>. As observed
by GPP (again, p. 456), this Mycenaean Greek
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hikkʷeiā </span>would be
the equivalent
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hippeiā </span>in classical
Greek. Thus the combination of po-ti-ni-ja and i-qe-ja in the text of
this tablet can be interpreted to mean this: ‘to the Lady
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">potnia</span>\],
controller-of-horses
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">hikkʷeiā</span>\]’—or, to word
it more specifically, ‘to the Lady, Charioteer’.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.32.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.33.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.35.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.37.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.38.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.39.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.40.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.41.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.42.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.43.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:1.44.10

## Scroll II. Corinth

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.2.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.3.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.18.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.20.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.21.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.26.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.28.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.29.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.30.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.31.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

I take it that Pausanias here is guardedly indicating that he saw the
tomb of Hippolytus himself, situated next to the tomb of Phaedra. Our
traveler is guarded because, as he said earlier at 2.32.1 about the hero
cult of Hippolytus, the people of Troizen ‘do not show
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">apophainein</span>\] his tomb
\[<span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">taphos</span>\], though they
know where it is’. In the wording of
Pausanias, <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">oikiā </span>‘house’
can refer to the ‘abode’ of a cult hero, that is, to his tomb. And he
ostentatiously uses this word here at 2.32.4. A telling parallel is the
wording at Pausanias 2.23.2, where he refers to the tomb of the cult
hero Adrastos as
an <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">oikiā</span> while he calls
the nearby tomb of Amphiaraos simply a hieron ‘sanctuary’—and while,
even more simply, he refers to the nearby tomb of Eriphyle, wife of
Amphiaraos, as a <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma</span>,
the literal meaning of which is ‘memorial marker’. This same
word <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">mnēma </span>is used by
Pausanias here at 2.32.4 with reference to the tomb of Hippolytus. Other
examples
where <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">oikiā </span>refers to
tombs of cult heroes include 2.36.8, 5.14.7, 5.20.6, 9.11.1. 9.12.3.
9.16.5. 9.16.7.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.32.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.33.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.34.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.35.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.36.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.37.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:2.38.7

## Scroll III. Laconia

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.3.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.4.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.6.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.7.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.8.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.9.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.11.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.12.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.14.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.15.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.16.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.18.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.19.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.20.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.22.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.23.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.24.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.7

{3.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:3.26.11

## Scroll IV. Messenia

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.3.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.7.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.8.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.9.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.12.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.14.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.16.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.17.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.20.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.21.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.23.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.27.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.28.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.29.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.30.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.31.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.32.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.33.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.34.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.35.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:4.36.7

## Scroll V. Elis, Part 1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.1.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.5.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.6.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.7.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.8.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.10.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.11.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.13.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.14.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.15.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.17.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.18.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.19.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.20.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.17

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.21.18

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.24.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.25.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:5.27.12

## Scroll VI. Elis, Part 2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.3.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.4.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.6.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.7.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.9.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.10.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.11.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.13.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.14.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.15.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.16.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.19.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.17

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.18

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.20.19

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.21.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.22.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.24.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:6.26.10

## Scroll VII. Achaea

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.2.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.3.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.4.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.5.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.6.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.7.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.10.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.15.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.16.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.17.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.8

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The epithet of Artemis here, Laphria, is noted by Pausanias already at
4.31.7. This epithet of the goddess is distinct from the epithet
Triklaria, which is applied to her at a later point of the narrative,
starting at 7.19.1. As I will argue, the overall role of the goddess in
Patras supersedes the inherited roles that are built into her two
epithets.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.9

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The epithet Laphria, as noted here, originates from Calydon. This point
of origin is noted by Pausanias already at 4.31.7.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.10

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">skhēma </span>‘pose’ of the
statue corresponds to the role of the goddess
as <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">thēreuousa </span>‘huntress
of wild beasts’.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.11

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Already here, Pausanias is drawing attention to the unusual nature of
the sacrifice that we is about to witness. It is as if he were already
distancing himself from the extreme cruelty that awaits his viewing.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.12

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The procession that leads up to the sacrifice features most prominently
a priestess of Artemis. I argue that this contemporary priestess, as she
figures in the ritual connected with Artems Laphria, matches the
archetypal priestess who figures in the myth connected with Artemis
Triklaria, which will be narrated later, starting at 7.19.1. In terms of
such a match, I argue further that the overall role of the goddess
supersedes her special roles as indicated by the epithets Laphria and
Triklaria.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.18.13

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The extreme cruelty of this spectacle at Patras, where sacrificial
animals are forcibly burned alive, seems to shock Pausanias. I ask
myself whether he may have had in mind here the kind of cruelty that was
ordinarily linked with spectacles organized for the entertainment of
romanized populations. I have in mind here the kinds of spectacles that
focused on the killing of wild beasts. It may be relevant that Pausanias
at 7.18.7 observes that the population of Patras had been in fact
thoroughly romanized by the Emperor Augustus, and this observation
immediately precedes the narrative that I am analyzing here, which
starts at 7.18.8.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The hero-shrine of Eurypylos, the location of which is linked by
Pausanias here with the altar of Artemis Laphria, is thus thereby linked
also with the rituals centering on the goddess in her role as indicated
by the epithet Laphria. But now, from here on, this cult hero Eurypylos
will be a bridge between Artemis in her role as Laphria and Artemis in
her role as Triklaria. That is because this hero, as we will see in the
narrative that follows at a later point, at 7.19.6, introduces for the
people of Patras the worship of Dionysus, and this practice of
worshipping that god, as we will also see later, will frame the myths
and the rituals centering on Artemis in her role as indicated by the
epithet Triklaria. What Artemis Laphria and Artemis Triklaria seem to
have in common is the priestess of the goddess. Previously, at 7.18.12,
we have seen the priestess in her role as a center of attention in
ritual, that is, in the procession that leads to the sacrifice for
Artemis Laphria. But now, from here on, we will see the priestess in her
role as a center of attention in myth, that is, in the love story of a
girl named Komaitho.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Here commences the love story about Komaitho the young priestess of
Artemis and his young seducer Melanippos. The reaction of the
disapproving parents of the young couple is evocative here of comparable
situations found in love stories as retold in the work of
Parthenius—and, more generally, in erotic novels.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.3

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On illicit sexual activity inside the sanctuary of Artemis, I
cross-refer to my commentary in the post
for [2018.07.13](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/the-sad-story-of-a-priestess-in-love-a-resacralizing-of-sex-in-greek-myth-and-ritual/).

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.4

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

On the yearly human sacrifice to Artemis in myth, which I argue
functions as an aetiology for the yearly animal sacrifice in ritual, I
refer to my commentary in the post
for [2018.07.13](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/the-sad-story-of-a-priestess-in-love-a-resacralizing-of-sex-in-greek-myth-and-ritual/).
As for the etymology, already noted, of Komaithō as ‘whose head-of-hair
is flaming-red’, I draw attention to further discussion by Lightfoot
1999:179: she focuses there on another mythological figure who is
likewise named Komaitho.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.5

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Here is where the role of Pausanias as an occasional novelist becomes
most overt. He is now ostentatiously claiming that the original human
sacrifice of Komaitho and Melanippos was not a total misfortune for
them, unlike the yearly human sacrifices of couples who experienced the
same form of death—because at least the original couple were
passionately in love with each other, whereas the couples who were put
to death year after year thereafter were not paired as lovers. To have
the good fortune of experiencing passionate love is worth all the
suffering, as Pausanias concludes before he leaves behind his temporary
role as the all-understanding narrator.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.6

Comment on 7.19.6-7.20.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Picking up from where Pausanias left off at 7.19.1, which is where he
had first signaled the story of the cult hero Eurypylos and how this
hero had introduced in Patras the worship of Dionysus, our traveler now
proceeds at 7.19.6 to tell that story, the content of which provides a
Dionysiac outer frame for the previous telling of an inner story—how,
once upon a time, the priestess Komaitho was seduced by her lover
Melanippos. Similarly in the case of the so-called Cologne Epode as
analyzed in the post
for [2018.07.06](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/erotic-desecration-and-sacralization-in-greek-myth-and-ritual/),
I have posited a Dionysiac outer frame for the telling of another inner
story—how, once upon a time, the daughters of Lykambes were seduced, or
so it was claimed, by Archilochus.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.19.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.1

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

The details given here about the procession
of <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">paides</span>, here referring
to both boys and girls, are most telling. The collocation of the
verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein </span>in the sense
of ‘carry \[a sacred object\] in procession’ with the
verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein </span>in the sense
of ‘lead \[someone\] in procession’ is comparable to other contexts
where Pausanias is describing a procession, as at 1.27.3. I comment on
that related text of Pausanias in the posting
for [2018.04.05](https://classical-inquiries.chs.harvard.edu/a-sampling-of-comments-on-pausanias-1-24-8-1-27-3/).
As for the text here at 7.20.1, the ritual of a procession where the
priest of Dionysus ‘carries’ a sacred object, indicated by the
verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">pherein</span>, is a
re-enactment of the myth of human sacrifice to Artemis, which would have
featured a primal procession where the people ‘lead’, as expressed by
the verb <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">agein</span>, a boy and
a girl who are destined to become the annual sacrifical victims. The set
of boys and girls who participate in re-enacting the myth in the yearly
ritual are likewise being ‘led’ in procession. We see here a merger in
identifying Artemis Laphria/Triklaria as the recipient of sacrifice. At
7.18.11, the recipient was called Laphria, but here at 7.20.1 the
recipient is called Triklaria.

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.2

<div custom-style="chs_normal">

Now the narrative of Pausanias loops back to Artemis in her role as
Laphria, as first mentioned at 7.18.8. His reference here at 7.20.2 to
the <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">peribolos </span>‘enclosure’
of Artemis Laphria shows that the myths and rituals linked with Artemis
Triklaria have been contained all along, ever since 7.18.8, by the
overall enclosure of Artemis Laphria. The role of Artemis Triklaria is I
think older than the role of Artemis Laphria. The
epithet <span custom-style="chs_translit_Greek">Triklāriā </span>refers
to an old tripartion, before the unification of Patras, and this
tripartition represented the communities of Mesatis, Antheia, and
Aroe—as we read at 7.18.2–7.18.4. The Dionysiac framework for these
communities is symbolized by the assignment of the following three
epithets to the god Dionysus: Mesateus, Antheus, and Aroeus—as we read
at 7.21.6 (Brelich 1969:368).

</div>

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.21.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.22.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.23.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.24.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.25.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.26.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:7.27.12

## Scroll VIII. Arcadia

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.4.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.5.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.6.6

{8.7.1.}

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.8.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.9.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.10.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.11.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.14.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.15.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.18.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.24.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.25.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.27.17

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.28.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.29.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.30.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.31.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.34.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.35.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.36.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.37.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.38.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.39.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.40.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.40.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.40.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.40.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.40.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.41.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.42.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.43.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.44.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.45.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.46.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.46.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.46.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.46.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.46.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.47.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.48.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.49.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.50.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.51.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.52.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.53.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:8.54.7

## Scroll IX. Boeotia

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.3.9

{9.4.1.}

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.5.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.11.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.13.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.27.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.28.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.28.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.29.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.30.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.31.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.32.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.33.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.34.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.36.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.37.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.38.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.39.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.40.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:9.41.7

## Scroll X. Phokis, Ozolian Lokris

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.1.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.2.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.3.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.3.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.3.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.3.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.4.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.5.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.6.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.7.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.8.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.9.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.10.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.11.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.12.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.13.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.14.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.15.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.16.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.17.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.18.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.19.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.20.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.21.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.22.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.23.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.24.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.25.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.26.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.27.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.27.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.27.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.27.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.28.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.29.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.30.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.31.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.13

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.14

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.15

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.16

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.17

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.18

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.32.19

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.33.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.34.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.35.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.36.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.37.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.1

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.2

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.3

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.4

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.5

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.6

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.7

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.8

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.9

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.10

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.11

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.12

---

@urn:cts:greekLit:tlg0525.tlg001.aprip:10.38.13
